It's a death cult.
This is part of the reason why, among all the religions I dislike, I dislike evangelical Christians the absolute most.  Their personal delusions have global consequences disproportionate to their numbers by virtue of the US electoral process and aggressive gerrymandering.
Looks like we are going to go through a second Christian dark ages....First time they killed academics for heresy, this time, it will be the rest of us.
So happy I live in a country (Norway) where religious nutcases aren't influental.
I was immersed in that fatalistic shit as a teenager and thankfully escaped.  It really does affect how you look at the world and also yourself.  They had me convinced that Jesus was returning any minute, so why bother training for a career or worrying about pollution?  I nevertheless won an academic scholarship and going away to college helped break that spell.
God: So how well did you take care of my garden?

Evangelicals: Er...
Religion is a cancer.
Everyone calls me radical for saying these people aren't just anti-climate-action, they're anti-human. It's disgusting. They're freaks.
Too many religiots.
Religion is poison
I worked at a restaurant in college that served take away plastic cups, but a lot of eat in customers would leave them when they were done. We never recycled those cups and lids. I asked the gm one day about it, and they said it wasn't worth the effort. I pressed the issue, and they said "Whats the point? The raptures going to happen before global warming kills us all anyway." I had to pick my jaw up off the floor.
Nothing new. When asked in 1981 at hearing whether he favored preserving wilderness areas for future generations, the Secretary of the Interior under Reagan, James Watt, responded “I do not know how many future generations we can count on before the Lord returns”
Species have died out from overbreeding, or the converse (not surviving a bottleneck event that narrowed the gene pool too far).  Species have died out from catastrophic events like volcanoes, asteroids, ice ages.

But we must surely be the first species to die out from an inexplicable attachment to fairy tales.
also - extreme christians are ok with using the bible as law…. taking us back 2000+ years

we don’t want to go back.!
These dumb MF's are gonna get us all killed
Their own book requires them to be good stewards of the Earth and God’s creation. They don’t do any of the stuff they are commanded to do.
So much for stewardship of God's creation & letting God pick the timeline.
Religion has always been the enemy of progress
It always baffles me how religious people can say this is God's planet yet treat it like shit. And when you try to tell them that they say God will fix it after judgment day. These idiots are lazy and disrespectful to their own God.
I wrote about this in a paper about the environment for college around 2010. I was proud of the paper so I emailed it to some family members, including my grandma who is an evangelical, who acted appalled. It was just common sense to me that Christians have never cared for the environment because of the belief that “Jesus has a plan” which frees them from any and all responsibility for the world.
Religious people and their doomsday prophecies. Jews - Christians and Muslims all pine for that eternal life, and have different takes on how the final day is gonna liberate everyone who has been a good believer (according to their own ideas), and bring them to a new existence. Meanwhile they are going to doom everything else, because this life and existence is merely a test, a waiting room for the desirable existence waiting beyond death.

It is immoral and evil. And we need to have a serious talk about the damage that Abrahamic religion causes in society. New research is showing that strict religious fundamentalism has correlation with damage to the right hemisphere of the brain, meaning they are unable to handle novelty and change in a healthy way. No wonder they flee in to dreamy delusions of a paradise beyond death.
Mormons roll that same way.
I can confirm first hand this is accurate from my days as an evangelical.
I’m so sick of these people
Just a fucking stupid ass rumor. Not even from the Bible at all.

Bunch of goddamned idiots.
These f-ing morons are waiting for the rapture. Do the world a favour by jumping off the cliff yourselves.
racial merciful workable possessive glorious society dam busy joke doll

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev/home)*
Yup, we came pretty close but failed to attain objective permanence.  And if that was the great filter, well we are a minnow who's just been winnowed.
I forgot where I read it but apparently this is why they are even funded by oil industry to some degree. Jesus is coming soon anyway. Dig more oil!
how to fight this. does anyone know of anyone doing something about it. an org, some youtube pet project. anything. wish to see more pro-active stuff. just getting informed of this shit is not enough.


"The Freedom From Religion Foundation is a national nonprofit organization with about 40,000 members across the country. Our purposes are to protect the constitutional principle of separation between state and church, and to educate the public on matters relating to nontheism."

thats cool but 40k members is such small potato , they should have a dozen millions or more...
It will be one of many new excuses not to do any once it gets so bad even Fox News watchers finally admit it.

" It's Gawd's Wrath!"

" Don't blame us in the current US congress,  that was our dads!"

" well, scientist didn't warn us enough,  so they are to blame!"
Any timeline that relies on religion is going to lead people to the result they think religion can help them avoid.
There are many categories within Christianity, and one of them does indeed believe that Jesus' second coming is "imminent." There are plenty of people in this category who are concerned with climate change and the adverse effects certain human decisions have on the environment. They speak of "creation care" as a divine mandate to take care of the planet as best they can. On the other hand, within this same category there are people who just plain don't care about the environment *because* they believe Jesus' second coming is so imminent that nothing we do about the environment will matter. It's this latter group of people within this category who are to blame for failing to care about the physical condition of the planet because of a poor application of biblically-based beliefs.
So not only can we sue energy companies for their deceptions but also the Vatican? Or religious institutions?
Supernatural beliefs impede understanding of reality. Check.
Yep, Jebus is coming, so who cares about the planet.
Told ya so. They believe Jesus is coming in their lifetime.  Trump is the key to the war of revelations and the rapture. They believe this stuff.
Yeah, no shit. Evangelical’s have been waiting for the world to end since the 50’s and it seems to be happening with geopolitics and climate change. They will do nothing to make this world a better place because they think their rapture into heaven is more important than worldly concerns. A bunch of fatalists.
These people are absolutely crazy.
Fucking zealots...everyone's gotta suffer cuz they can't tell their Bible is just a hornier Dune.
Fucking zealots...everyone's gotta suffer cuz they can't tell their Bible is just a hornier Dune.
Stupid. Jesus has been supposedly coming back any day now for 2000 years and he never even existed in the first place.
The real issue with these morons is that we can't just wait for them to die out. We need to take immediate action on this issue NOW. We are already screwed and are going to face a drastically different environment. All these people who believe this crap are going to be dead before the worst effects start to hit us. Some of them may live long enough to understand how much they screwed the rest of us, but this is not a movie. Boomers feeling bad about what they did does not turn back the clock to save us.
They need literal hell on earth for their end times prophecy.
Crazy, if you are a true believer in the Bible, you have been tasked to care for our planet. Never mind. Also suppose to love your neighbor, feed/house the poor, not lie about your neighbor. My favorite, not cheat on your spouse.
So if we poison ourselves and our family members it’s in the name of gods plan
No shit! No responsibility if god is in control.
Those willfully ignorant assholes cling to their encient doctrines of hatred in disguise, deflecting any logical criticism in delusion that this life is a test to see if you're worthy to live with a fat old republican who shat out the world and killed his son, even if it means the real world crumbles, because in their, "minds," It's all a distraction from big fat yahweh, a comically ridiculous god that probably doesn't exist. The Bible is crawling with that tribal, "me good, you bad!" thinking that our species loves so much. Hopefully all these KK-Kross hugger primitive minded fuckwads all go the way of poor hypatia.
Religion poisons everything.
I wrote a paper on this very thing 25 years ago. Wish I still had it.

Paper concluded that we'd be really royally and truly screwed if we did nothing to at least prepare even if we didn't believe it.

They don't care what happens to our planet because they don't plan to be here.
They’ve been promised a new heaven and a new earth. My question is why would God bother giving us Earth 2.0 when we’ve proved we can’t be responsible for the original version?
It sucks that the evangelical Christian faith in America is completely hogtied to conservative political ethos.
Yes.  Yes, I have known of this attitude nearly my whole life.  It was quite a shock to learn that it isn't that they don't believe in climate change or humanity's harm to the earth, but that they welcome it.  It is madness.
Rush Limbaugh said something like "it's hubris to think that humans could derail God's plan."

I've heard my father say it a few times over the years
It’s true 
I was taught this for years
New heaven a new earth 
I go to prepare a place for you
Watching the shift from....

"It's not happening" 

To

"It's happening but we aren't causing it"

To

"Sure it's happening and we might be causing it but it's part of God's plan" 

Has been wild.
Cut off all religious people from your life.  They make the world worse and have no place in modern society
It also might be the huge island of trash that keeps growing. There was a nice map floating around the other day, pretty sure some SEA countries were more than triple any other countries of the world. 

I’m not saying it’s not also cultists, but I also know these Fucking paper straws aren’t  fixing it either when there’s literal islands of trash.
"It's not the money that freely exchanges hands, it's religion!" 

A tale as old as time.
I assumed the problem was more  just denial in scientific evidence.
Duh, I could have told you that.
My dog shits on the sidewalk. If god doesn’t like it, he will send the rain to wash it away
they also support israel just taking over everything as a sign of jesus return... but they dont actually like the jewish people. Evans say jewish peoples eyes will be opened when jesus comes back.
[https://imgflip.com/i/945sm4](https://imgflip.com/i/945sm4)
It is absolutely insane they think they can control the absolute master of the universe in fulfilling a very fantastical piece of literature by killing people so that those "prophecies" will become real...
“having dominion over” translates to “treating earth like a toilet bowl”.  Also known as Christian Values that need to be preserved at all costs, for some unknown reason.
In 20 years when ocean toxicity has caused mass extinction and ecosystems to collapse which is already happening, theirs a scientific consensus that the 6th mass extinction is underway and rapidly accelerating. Then these suicidal idiots will be praying and begging god to save them and take them away.
Isn’t it becoming clear Evangelicals and extremist Catholics are the evil at the core of human life?  Their beliefs are literally destroying our species and many others. Their insistence that forgiveness for their sins via prayer, drives them to new heights of venomous hate and horrendous crimes especially against women and children BECAUSE they believe a prayer relieves them of their immorality and guilt.

There has to be a way neutralize them and remove them or at least contain them from committing atrocities.
My Christian mythology is a bit lacking, but dont they believe in hell on earth after the rapture?  I bet they really want to see it happen.
The disaster that happened in Syria was all part of some biblical completion -ist theory. I think something along the lines of Damascus being levelled to the ground before the revelation. 🤮
Sadly, this is what my dad also believes. 😔
>“Christians are people who take God at His word. God has promised the Earth will never again be destroyed — so we should live and act like that’s true because it is.”

Climate change isn't about the world being 'destroyed' - it's about things getting worse and worse; not 'ending' or being 'destroyed'.

Under their belief system they are spared the suffering of the tribulation.  They hate suffering themselves but love the suffering of others.  

Nah - I was thinking pointing out to them that they'll suffer for their negligence, but realized they're just fucked in the head.  If it weren't god/jesus/etc, it'd be the secret horta vulcan mind meld love baby.
The people who believe they were commanded to be good stewards of the earth are bad stewards?! What's next, the love thy neighbor crowd hating their gay or brown neighbor? The feed the poor commandees voting for groups that remove safety nets for the poor?


It's hardly a mystery why "hypocrisy" is cited as a leading reason for people leaving Faith.
….or endorse any policy at all
I believe it.
So Jesus will miracle the world better?
Tax these religion losers now.
Homo sapiens are running up against some real flaws in our composition. We've long stumbled successfully around our severe propensity towards delusion and mental illness (religion), as well as our inefficient and costly reproductive process, but climate change and all its effects are really knocking us back.

At the end of the day, we're only as fit as our majority, and if they are not fit, we don't have much of a future. C'est la vie.
The whole religious concept that, this world is unimportant because we're only here to prepare for the next world, is the root cause of most of the evil and destruction in the world.
"We have to let everyone kill each other and destroy the world, or we might have to admit we were wrong for being extremists with the book that warned us to not being extremists over it..."  

The "faithful" from Revelations that make it to heaven are still the same faithful that are supposed to denounce the shove-it-down-your-throat approach and open parading of their conviction to the bible while not actually practicing anything about the religions most important tenets in everyday life.  
They truly think they're only saved and worthy of heaven when it all goes to shit. And they dont see that their own wishing for, pushing for, and causing the bigotry, violence, and destruction as the hypocrisy that it is.  

Never mind the fact that the whole thing is set in the Middle East...
Hmmm... the Bible established that humanity is to be the Earth's steward, with every person responsible for caring for the planet like they care for God.

What do these evangelicals think their God's treatment would be like for those who willingly destroyed the planet just to benefit themselves by meeting Jesus? Do they think they'll actually be rewarded for deliberately disobeying their duties?
Evangelicals out there being like "God will fix it" meanwhile God is up in heaven screaming "I SENT THE FUCKING SCIENTISTS, LISTEN TO THEM!"

I'm well aware of how this joke goes against the spirit of atheism
Of course. Live in a fantasy world and let the real world go to crap.
This fallen world is not their final destination: they all have a second paradise to go to, and Earth is only a truck stop on the way--one that is worthy of destruction.
So many problems here, even within the context of their mythology... 

- It's a "secret timeline," but they know what it is?  Isn't the Bible pretty clear that not even the angels know when the end is coming?

- "God has promised the Earth will never again be destroyed." In the words of the great George Carlin: "The planet isn’t going anywhere; we are! We’re going away! Pack your shit, folks!"

- "God said the Earth would not be destroyed by a flood." He have anything to say about unsurvivable heatwaves, droughts, or mega-storms, or even just conditions changing faster than ecologies can adapt?
Nah, religions aren't bad. 

/s
The Bible literally says anyone who professes to know or claim to have any idea when the end times will come is a false prophet and antichrist.
So they are either afraid we'll mess up God's plan or it's futile to try to?
Religion is killing our planet. Period. It's a mass delusion and anyone who believes on God belongs in a mental institution, no different than schizophrenia. One day that'll be the norm
Remember that they crucified woke Jesus
This isn't new (to me); I've thought this for decades.
The local newspaper had front page articles about this topic in the 70s.
I have relatives who refuse to do anything about climate change, like even admit it's a thing. After yet another scorching summer, I've seen some cracks in the denial. Sadly, though, the more religious don't want to do anything anyway. They believe the end times are near. Nevermind they could be wrong, and they have kids and grandkids who will pay the price. 

It's more comfortable to believe a fantasy in which your deity of choice kills everyone you love, then rescues the ones they believe are deserving (not who the deity believes deserves it), than to admit your kids and grandkids are fucked. Ironically, the denial just about guarantees the thing they don't believe.

In what interpretation of a religious text does it say that you personally should bring on the end times?
I’ve been saying this for a decade now, when these people think they’re all getting raptured and quite the Bible saying “till the land and eat the animals for it is for you”, or some shit like that.
Climate denial is largely driven by magical thinking and religious viewpoints.  Religion is a cancer on humanity - and on every species of life on this planet that we end up destroying because of our ignorance.
I have been looking for this for months. I knew there was a death cult theory behind this.
https://heavensgate.com/misc/pressrel.htm
I wonder who in their right mind thinks, "I am not going to take care of my current home, but I know God is absolutely going to let me in his regardless of that".
No shit?...!
Dominionists.