Defund the oligarchs.
Even if I was a complete dumbass and bought his claim that his trip to Kenya is good and necessary for the world's and the climate's sake.

Why use a Private Jet? He could go to Kenya on a Commrcial flight. Multiple people using the flight, thus reducing the amount of carbon used by each of them.

Also I may have gone crazy, but I seem to have some weird memories of a worldwide shared event in 2020 where we learned that we can have meetings remotely...
Bill Gates is a bullshitter, and he's not very good at it. I remember when they asked him about a hypothetical wealth tax and he said something along the lines of "but if you take 100 billion away from me, I start to wonder what I'd even have left!" - nobody was proposing anything remotely close to this amount, which Bill knew, and even if somebody took 100 billion away from him he'd still have billions left over, which Bill knew
Bill Gates does not agree that using a private jet and campaigning on the issue of climate change represents a contradiction open to allegations of hypocrisy.  
  
During a wide-ranging interview with the BBC aired at the end of last week, Gates was asked for his view on the charge that a climate change campaigner using a private jet to travel around the world was a hypocrite.  
  
“Well, I buy the gold standard of, funding Climeworks, to do direct air capture that far exceeds my family’s carbon footprint,” the Microsoft co-founder, who was being interviewed in Kenya, replied.  
  
“And I spend billions of dollars on ... climate innovation. So, you know, should I stay at home and not come to Kenya and learn about farming and malaria?”  
  
The billionaire added that he was “comfortable with the idea that, not only am I not part of the problem by paying for the offsets, but also through the billions that my Breakthrough Energy Group is spending, that I’m part of the solution.”

Read more: [https://www.cnbc.com/2023/02/07/private-jet-use-and-climate-campaigning-not-hypocritical-bill-gates-.html](https://www.cnbc.com/2023/02/07/private-jet-use-and-climate-campaigning-not-hypocritical-bill-gates-.html)
Rules for thee but not for me
He should be flying commercial unless it is a security issue which it may be.
Basically: I’m rich and I pay a lot, so I can do what I want.
The 1% contribute 50% of carbon into the atmosphere.  Hello Bill Gates, we're looking at YOU.
It’s a necessary evil so that he can do the work he needs to do and save the world right? see Kenneth Copeland 🙄
“I can pollute because I donate to climate charities.”

No one is asking you to swim to Kenya… maybe just fly first class instead of a private jet?
I planted several thousands of trees to offset my carbon footprint.  This guy capitalizes, then under pays others reduce his footprint for him.
I'll be honest, I don't really like this sort of "gotcha" criticism. Yeah, there's hypocrisy, but I'll take a generous hypocrite actually contributing to the solution over the alternative.

Would we really be any better off if Bill Gates and every other billionaire flew coach and lived in a rundown studio apartment? To me it seems the only important part, is how much they are contributing to solving problems, not whether they can righteously claim the moral high ground.

When you're talking about existential issues, letting the perfect be the enemy of the good is a really bad idea.
Gotta get to Epstein’s island somehow
Truth is planes are not the reason for global warming.  They are certainly not "clean", but the vast majority of the pollutants being dumped into our atmosphere is coming from industry.  That is the main problem.
"So, you know, should I stay at home and not come to Kenya and learn about farming and malaria?”  No, just do what 99.9% of people have to do by not taking a private plane there for your own comfort and convenience. It's no excuse. I like bill, but he's wrong here. You need to lead by example and not with your pocket.
Before electric cars were available I drove a gas car and I advocated for better climate policy. You use the tools you have to make the next set of better tools.  You don’t curl up in a ball and stop doing anything.
Living in the world as it is, is not a reason not to work to make the world a better place.
he's not wrong.  the idea that we are going to reverse climate change through personal choices is total bullshit.  huge structural changes need to be made on a global scale.  that means government intervention.  it doesn't get done any other way.
Gates while fundamentally wrong because of his hoarding of wealth atleast gives to multiple climate related causes. In terms of million-billionaire climate shitters he ain't even in the top 10
How else can he take 37 trips to Epstein island?
human beings are full of contradictions. the carbon offset stuff seems bogus to me but the energy investment is real. he invests a lot in American nuclear startups and is, indeed, working on solutions to get to zero emissions. then again, he had a massive short against Tesla when they were working very hard for the same goal. I don't know the details of what legislation he's lobbied for, so maybe he really is trying to put strict rules on the rest of us but what the dude is doing isn't all bad..
He has a very capitalistic response for his choices. I'm not saying he's wrong. He has a point. He has more than sufficient resources to offset his impact.
Bill Gates can suck my hairy balls
Republicans are terrorists
Hypocrite monster
“Climate rules for thee, not for me, plebs”
If all the rich and powerful people really wanted to reduce human-created emissions to zero asap, they would fund the release of a super contagious and lethal respiratory virus that would kill all humans instantly\*.

&#x200B;

\*an idea approved by all other living things
And we will just carry on living life.....
Notice how none of these news media allow comments. It's like they want you take it and stay shut
Rules for thee but not for me
I dont . . . I dont know man, I just really dont want to trust a guy who gleefully smiled while talking about depopulation and pandemics in front of millions of people.

Being a massive hypocrite is technically one of the least heinous things this man might be capable of.
He’s delusion reminds me of those nutjob mega church pastors
Because the rules don’t apply to geeky billionaires
Rules only apply to the peasants...
Private Jets for Me, but nit for Thee
If he’s so rich and smart then why doesn’t his “I truly care about the climate” butt develop a zero emission private jet and fly that around?
TLDR: He is rich and doesn’t give AF… only wants to tell others that they should care
I dislike him more everyday
Zoomers and Millennials don't know the hate that Bill Gates garnered back in the 90s. The icon for M$ on Slashdot is still a Bill Gates Borg.
"Because I'm a hypocritical douchebag."

Now you don't have to read the article because it's been summarized.
Because rules for thee not for me. You plebs need to know your place you sacrific to save the world for bill
just one example of why idgaf about climate change. if all of my basic needs are not met as a human being, i have no willpower to spare for climate change. for example, if i cannot trust my local government to ensure the water from my tap is safe, i'm buying all of the bottled water i need to to meet that need. 

Gates has everything he could ever need.
[deleted]
Gates is  an entitled douchebag
Because he’s a major hypocrite like the rest. Rules for thee but not for me.
Don't read it, but I'm assuming it's something like I'm special and rich, so I can
Lol I love Bill gates' interviews.  Here are his thoughts on epstein

Judy Woodruff: (12:06)
Is there a lesson for you? For anyone else looking at this?

Bill Gates: (12:12)
Well, he’s dead, so in general you always have to be careful.
He calls it his "guilty pleasure" like its a small thing. A single flight is going to add literally tons of co2 to the air. Any time he takes a private flight he could have avoided adding tons of co2 by simply not going on that flight, or go on a commercial flight and share the burden with 100s of other people. The way this guy down plays this like it's not a big deal or whatever he's doing at the destination will be worth the tons of co2 pisses me off
Because he's a hypocrite.
I planted a tree, does that mean I can stop recycling? Hypocrisy
Probably because he's a hypocritical douchebag that doesn't care about us and wants us dead anyways.
“It’s different when I do it!” - billionaires
Oh look, another elite hypocrite.
Bill Gates can suck my entire c@ck
No, no no, it’s different when I do it!!!
Total douche bag
“I enjoy being a hypocrite and making poor people feel bad for things they have no control over”
Bill Gates can suck my entire rooster
Short answer: MONEY
Translation : " I'm an elite, I make the rules you dregs of humanity must live by. Me, I live by my own rules".
Because he's a hypocrite, that's why
I hate this guy 

Go away bill
Im not against capitalism per se but this is what it turns into. A few very wealthy people(<1%) that control everything and do what they want.  Then it resets when theres blood in the streets.
“What the rich countries owe to the entire world is that they need to get their emissions down to zero as fast as they can,” he says. ".... Ok Bill you go first. Because I'm not a rich person in a rich country, I'm a poor person in a rich country.
Rules for thee not for me?
I bet he’ll continue eating filet mignon while the rest of us peasants are eating mealworms too
Because he doesn't care "that" much.
It’s because he thinks he is more important than anyone else. Plain and simple. Him and all the others who want to eat their public figure cake and eat their privacy too
“I’m off to clap child cheeks on the low, plus I’m rich. Go worry about your gas stoves. Africa burning tires for gold I’m gonna go laugh at it.”
Climate change is a lie to usher in Agenda 2030/4th Industrial Revolution. Bill Gates is a satanic genocidal pedophile. Stop viewing him as an authority. On anything.
He has jet races with Taylor Swift and John Kerry!
Are we are “rich country”? Why don’t I feel rich?
He is spending the rewards of others' hard work. He didn't earn those billions, he took it from hard working men and women and pretends he did it himself. Now he parades around the globe pretending to be a hero when he is a villain.
POS
why are billionaires buying so much land and no one is talking about that
The short answer is, shut up poors. Do as you're told, not as a do. Don't like it? Marry a Prince! Peace out, losers!
Does this surprise anyone?
If only his company had some means where people could come together and meet online as teams.
Rules for thee and not for me.  They you to conserve and eat bugs so they dont have to.
Because he doesn't care about the environment
I can't believe anybody trusts this bond villain

such a scummy dude
Bill Gates is a 'do as I say' not 'do as I do' Schill and it sucks.
Some animals ate more equal than others.
He got used to flying on Jeffery Epsteins Lolita Express too late to fly commercial
 Bill gates is not a good person
Classic “Do as I say, not as I do”. Their all for climate change until it affects them, then their not.
“Is for the greater good that I do not travel with the plebeians. Now pay up your subscription to 365, you will own nothing unless you pay for a water down office for 149.99”
Glad to see there's dislike for Gates on both sides
Because, "F" you. That's why.
Bill is an elitist prick.
Let’s overthrow the bourgeoisie
Everything he says he has to go to Kenya for could be done over webcam.
This is just showing that he believes in a hierarchy and that since he isn’t a peasant he can do as he pleases. I mean big twitch streamers have the same mentality so nothing new really.
In other words I’m rich and pay so I can pollute as much as I want to go to other countries when I can telecommute cuz I pay for what I think is innovation in the crusade
His real answer is…”because I hate you, I believe I’m a deity, and F.U. I can do whatever I want “.
Why is anyone still listening to Bill Gates ...
I think Bill is a piece of crap
Environmental problems are for the 99%
He’s so rich he pays for all the damage he does, cuz that’s what money does…the environment says oh okay you gave me money so whatever you do doesn’t matter /s
Most people, especially the rich and elite, are hypocrites.  Rules apply to everyone else but them.