Sandy Hook didn’t change anything about gun control

It will take a big heat dome event with a grid failure cooking millions of people to death to change the conversation.
It also won't change anything about leadership or preparedness. Yay.
Was this even in doubt? California has been burning every year for like a decade.

The latest right-wing bullshit is that protecting the smelt fish and a fractional cut in the LAFD budget caused the extensive damage (both bullshit to be clear).
I’ve seen far too many think pieces from people with religious psychosis describing this as “punishment from God.”
We had a big election a couple months ago, and people voted for fires, floods, and more climate change.

Fuck 'em.
If the federal government botches the response, maybe we can start to have a serious discussion about secession or maybe joining Canada here on the west coast. So sick of being tethered to the fucking hillbilly morons in the south and Midwest 
I'm in Western NC and we are still recovering from Hurricane Helene blowing thru here in late September. That hurricane did Armageddon-level damage 500 miles from making landfall!  My homeowners insurance covered exactly $0 of the $62,600 I've paid out so far to get my basement put back together. I knew this long before the hurricane even made landfall because it stated in my policy it wouldn't. Erie Ins isn't stupid, they're not covering any weather events that could be related to climate change. Unfortunately, that's almost all of them.
We are past the point of anything getting better. Ever
The accelerationists won. All gas, no brakes from here on.
Here is the thing. And it sounds depressing because it is. We crossed the divide a while back when capitalism became the driving force of the world. New things are only invented if money can somehow be made off of it. Progress is stopped because money tells it to. Our laws or being ignored and rewritten because money told them to. We are regressing as a society for the same reason. While there are a bunch of us that are progressive and want real change, we don’t have the power that people with money have. And the only way to get that much money is to not be a good person. There are no honest billionaires. Climate change doesn’t exist to these people because money told the right wing media to tell them it isn’t real. Gun control doesn’t happen after countless tragedies for the same reason.
Just wait until the insurance companies start trying to short change the affected elite. This could get interesting.
As soon as people start mentioning climate,  the media says "ooh, look, looters!" to try and get the focus on race/crime
The GOP will remain a corrupt, treasonous party that stands in the way of all American and human progress.
Waiting for next year's fire then
First time?
When a good portion of the country is dumb enough to think that there are wildfires in California because sometimes women are firefighters, you can count on just about everything getting worse.
The fires have zero to do with climate change. Fires are a natural occurrence, and sometimes, a man made occurrence. Natural fires are a necessary part of the ecosystem. They serve to clear out debris and underbrush, and some plants need fire to seed. 

The issue is people live close to wildland that isn't properly managed. Letting undergrowth build up creates larger fires. Controlled burns, fire breaks, cleanups, etc, are necessary to prevent fires like what is going on now. 

Additionally, not having enough water for hydrants and reservoirs is a management issue.
Climate change and societal collapse are inevitable now anyway. Surely someone warned you 50 years ago when there was still time to do something.
The fires have jack shit to do with climate change. It has everything to do with California taking every single penny out of firefighting and fire prevention budgets.
Maybe the the Orbs and "drones" are here for the show.

I mean, what else could happen 🤷
Trump has already blamed the Dems. Maga on board.
People here in Tennessee are almost gleeful when the fires are brought up.
Don't worry - these fires aren't the result of climate change. The new president said it's because of DEI.
The entire discussion is already veering off towards "oh well too late now! Whelp we need money and cheap gas to pay for the impact now don't we?"
Of course it won’t change anything. Were you born yesterday? 

We’ve had escalating natural disasters for years now and the blame will get placed on literally anything else before the actual root of the problem.
Why would you expect it to? Even if fire tornadoes were killing people every other day republicans would say it’s a natural thing, and if it’s not then it’s a scheme by democrats to hurt people. 

People will only change their minds about it once it’s too late to do anything about it, and then it will still be the democrats fault for not doing enough.
Yeah until it’s the end of the world we are fucked thanks to dick wads like Trump and a Gregg Abbot the cripple who ain’t shit from Texas
Because it isn't about climate change.
What better way to 'own the libs' then incinerate their heartland? Even if they think it's possible, some spite-filled individuals probably think it's a good thing.
"God's punishment, not client warming"
first words out of VP trump mouth was the start of the blame game, no proof just some lies.
The biggest ones are interesting because feels like a lot of people here ignore the fact that California was suffering from severe wind storms to the point that the first day of the fire barely anything could be done by the local authorities. The second day they weren’t as bad but you should see the footage of planes trying to drop water, they literally are fighting the wind to stay straight and still get pushed around anyways. They also had to drop water from far higher than normal for the same reason. It wasn’t entirely safe for personal up there either as the chances of getting impaled by a random piece of debris early on weren’t exactly low. The minor fires are believed to be arson and people have been arrested.
There's been proof recently that oil companies knew about the climate change to the degree in the 50s, and knowing what was in store, they still went hard onto oil and fossil fuels instead of alternatives, or even just making the knowledge public, people gotta put the damn phones down and deal with this, they know millions will die, but will continue to destroy everything for some more money. We don't need a single Luigi, we need the people. 
Not that anyone who reads this will change their ways, they'll just get mad that they've been called on it, and then forget 30 seconds later when they doomscroll for the 10th time today.
If only the people circlejerking in this kind of topics would push their brain a little bit and understand why there is a climate change denial process :  
1- Scientifics and politics have been lying for decades telling us islands would go below sea level and the entire antartica would melt every 5 years

2- Commercials with forced ecology/bio products meaning huge price inflation

3- Politics/actors saying everyone is bad and should do better at home while they are flying every 3 days and release more carbon dioxide in a week than the normal person would do in a full life

4- The absolute hypocrisy of western world "punishing" themselves on a lot of things while other countries are releasing an ABSURD amount of garbage in the atmosphere

5- Average youth going on trip abroad 6 times per year and spending their money on shit they order 10000km away from their house but think they are good people and eco friendly

And the list goes on. Note that i'm not considering myself as a climate change denier or whatever, but i don't have the hypocrisy to talk about "climate change deniers" like they are the most stupid people when they feel played for such a long time already
A singular event is not evidence of climate change. Climate change is determined by looking at trends over hundreds, thousands, and millions of years. A forest fire, hurricane, or tornado is not evidence of climate change.
Ohhhh the oil-bots are pumping out Instagram content hard these last few days. The Jordan Petersen memes type pages are rife
So no discussion about government incompetence or corruption? No "follow the money?"
Yea republicans will just shift blame. They are already doing it
Maybe cramming millions of people together in a hot dry ass state wasn't the best idea. Insert surprised Pikachu face when dry ass state catches on fire and spreads quickly from the dense amount of fuel available to burn
If anything, this is just God's punishment for California's left-wing ideologies! 

/s

*I just know there are people who truly believe this and are insufferably smug about it, despite being 'good Christians.'*
Fire isn’t climate change. Fires happen all the time. In fact, fires are good for the environment. Humans need to get out of the way of nature.
U think wildfires r due to climate changed caused by humans…….interesting
My community of Chinese immigrants (mostly Trumpers) just blame the leftiest and Newsom
I dont know, alot of rich people where affected so maybe they will finally do something.
The fight against Climate Change is already over and has been for some time. It could have been an opportunity to take the time to do it right, change our habits, evolve. We had almost half a century to do it when the first sign came up. But we waited too long and then chose solutions that are just more of the same mistakes we've been doing for decades. Nothing will change.
How can fire cross streets? Are American houses tinderboxes?
Santa Ana winds have been going this time of year for ? FOREVER! No land management no water management. THIS IS A MAN CREATED NIGHTMARE. WAS IT SET BY MAN OR AN ELECTRIC GRID PROBLEM?
What does this fire have to do with climate change? Towns and cities have been burning down since we started building them. Hell california itself burns down every year. To think because we live in 2024 it has to be some global phenomenon is hubris
Because climate isn't the only reason fires exist. And this one, is almost entirely preventable but California has been very against prescribed burns despite the overwhelming evidence showing they are extremely beneficial
It's why I don't even bother to rebut my conservative friends about it. It just gives them something to dig in against. All I do is raise my eyebrows and sarcastically say, "Hm. Interesting."
Because the fires have absolutely nothing to do with climate change. We’ve had fires before. We’ve had high winds before. We have a drought every few years. 

Rinse and repeat because people have zero memory.
Man reddit needs to get unti the point it starts hurting the 1 percent and they can't run nothing will change.


12 companies contribute to 90  percent of the problem.


It's funny how they also have the most considerated wealth in history.


Folks without mass anger and a movement nothing will happen 
That’s because don’t you know bro?  Building dams will solve everything.      /sarcasm
What exactly started the fires and in so many places??
I already forgot those fires were still a thing 🤷‍♂️
Massive fires have been occuring in that same area for the last 100yrs and before that but nobody wants to change anything so it will happen again. The topography and weather events (santa ana winds) are picture perfect for another fire happening the same way.
Perhaps they will mandate no lighters for homeless folks
It will get worse, we have already passed the point of no return.  It's only a matter of time now.
I'm sure this time will be different. I feel like since the Hollywood elite experienced it too, they'll try harder to fight climate change.
🥱
"Americans can be trusted to always do the right thing, after exhausting all other options."

But dear gods are the consequences here dire if you don't get things right.
This is the thing, this fire was caused by three main factors. The winds gusts were up to 100 mph, the humility was in the single digits, and it hasn't rained in 8 months. Out of all those the not raining is the biggest factor and there is a good chance climate change was a factor
Well, Cory Doctorow's The Lost Cause has aged like milk.
Their should rather talk about their paper houses.
dont you guys have like a very oily imported tree wich catches fire really easily?

i thought thats the reason for the californian fires

since the sun doesnt randomly inflame something on earth temperature to low no?
You know what, if you're right it'll be because of this sentiment! Enough of all you bastards' defeatist attitudes! We're forcing the conversation to move forward and that's all there is to it! Anyone got a problem with that then sit down be quiet and stay out of the way!
How exactly is this climate change related? Not doubting it is in any way. I just wanna know how exactly climate change is the issue.
it will change: govermment miss management cant use climate change excuse for everything
Saw someone on here saying that the earths climate goes through “cycles of change where seasons flip”and these flesh melting summers and freezer burn winters are just signs of an upcoming cycle change 😱😱😱😱😱 color me surprised when looking at their profile they also voted for the guy who said shining a bright light in your body would cure covid
Not really a MMW, we all know that’s going to happen.
As long as we still have capitalism, ofc it wont
There is nothing to discuss here, we must listen to the scientists.
Negative consequences will become more frequent and more severe to the point that people demand action. By then it is too late to do anything meaningful.
Climate change is bullshit.
Well, the fires have nothing to do with climate change so..
It needs an apocalyptic event, like a superstorm that effectively wipes Florida off the map, for people with a Conservative ideology in the USA to accept reality.
It will change a lot about the discussion on Trout Population!
The people that cause climate change (Billionaires and their servants so ceos, cops, etc) will need to become afraid enough to stop doing what they’re doing in order for the acceleration of climate change to stop. So they have to become afraid if any of us want the next generations to survive.

And no, they don’t and won’t fear climate change. They need to fear something else.
Not really much of a prediction, the 'muricans are already blaming it on the incompetence of the local governor and the firefighters
$5 million reduction in spending on fuel reduction teams, including funds used to pay for vegetation management work by the California National Guard

$28 million cut from multiple state conservancies that expand wildfire resilience

$12 million cut from a "home hardening" experiment that would protect homes from wildfires

$8 million cut from monitoring and research spending, mostly dedicated to Cal Fire and state universities

$4 million cut from the forest legacy program, which encourages landowners to manage their properties

$3 million cut from funding for an inter-agency forest data hub

Omg why would climate change do this?! 

Also kind of funny that the most liberal state in the country, one that's allegedly exposed to the risks of climate change, wasn't worried much about climate change. If the climate change grifters actually believed their own rhetoric they wouldn't have been cutting anything.
the only reason the discussion will get worse is because people will realize cutting out all of animal agriculture is the only way to start reversing it, and people won't want to give up meat because they like the taste and will throw a fit until we burn.
As long as there's trillions to be made from exploiting fossil fuels, no, nothing will change.
O7
True
Especially since You-Know-Who is back in DC. I hate this timeline.
No shit.
Course not, wildfires are just a woke conspiracy /s
The Resnik business empire is operating within the constraints of California’s water rights, laws and regulations, the better targets of ire would seem to be California’s governor and legislature.
That’s because California doesn’t do forest management and clear away any brush.  A tinder box has nothing to do with the climate.  You know that, right?
Of course not. Twenty years ago or even fifteen I could forgive someone for not believing or understanding what climate change would do, but it's way past theory now; it's here, it's happening to us and it's tangible. Everywhere. Record floods, record heat waves, record fires and hurricanes. If the last ten years hasn't been proof enough why would this? Unless the entirety of LA or some other major western city gets *literally* completely wiped out there won't be a wakeup call that will matter.
I'm at the point I just want to let the world burn. Then how many of you fools voted for trump....
That's what happens when you put everything under the umbrella of climate change. Climate changes is now the big bad wolf 😱
Wasn’t this someone setting fires or am I wrong? Cause it won’t change people’s idea if it was someone just setting fires.
No shit bud.
Emotive stuff like this doesn’t really change minds. James woods was going off at the Australian prime minister for linking it to climate change, instead blaming “the liberals”. People are mostly too tribal and proud to admit they’re wrong.
It’s so funny that as humans, we have no basic self preservation. We are by nature terrified of death. We are so terrified, we make up all these fake Gods to make us feel better. Why are we so quick to push for our own demise. It’s obviously our destiny to destroy ourselves.
Of course.  Why would these fires suddenly change the discussion about climate change when all the other fires didn't?
Higher taxes and bigger government is the answer, even though that is some of the highest taxed real estate in America it’s not enough. We need higher taxes because only government can solve this.  Noted.
LA fires has zero to do with climate change. LA is a rain shadowed, desert, with no water. It has burned forever every single year. Don't make this about climate change instead make this about people building homes in high risk fire zones.
No one think Climate change chased out insurance, dried out the fire hydrants, and refused to clean up the underbush.