I liked the interview with him on [How I Built This.](https://www.npr.org/2018/02/06/572558864/patagonia-yvon-chouinard).
Patagonia has done a great job of being a leader in sustainability practices, but this is next-level. One of the few companies I'm truly proud to shop at
“Earth is our only shareholder”
This man should be the model for the American Dream. This is what it means to be successful. You take your good fortune and wealth, and use it to make the world better. I couldn't fathom sitting on billions upon billions of dollars just so they could pad my stock portfolio...
Everyone talking about buying more Patagonia stuff now, but isn't their message somewhere along the lines of buying only what you really need, and reusing, repairing, or recycling old gear?

Best thing to do is cheer and celebrate this type of action, rather than spending it on more stuff.

... is what I, a person with too much Patagucci gear, would want to say, but now I think I'll order something too.
WOW… Who’s next following his steps?
I live in Ventura where Patagonia has its headquarters.  To everyone talking shit about this being a scam, you have no idea the history of the company.
Anyone who thinks this is a stunt doesn't know yvone's history at all. The man is a total badass who has been mountaineering and climbing since the 60s iirc. Patagonia was founded purely because he made his own gear at the time in his garage and others wanted to purchase it, he had no intentions of becoming rich or creating a mega company, it just sort of happened.

 Since day one the man has been "eco conscious" and a huge philanthropist in terms of natural conservation efforts. He is about as pure as they come in terms of intent
Friends with some climbers who've known Yvon from back before there was a company. He's the real deal.
Former employee here. As long as the Chouinards own Patagonia, I will support this company for as long as I live.
If you needed another reason to buy their stuff. I've always loved my Patagonia shirts despite not being much of an outdoorsman. It's good to see a company practice what they preach so to speak.
Not just a great product, its a great company. This is uplifting.
[removed]
Always thought they were too expensive, but now it’s tempting seeing how much this helps everyone. Wish more CEO’s were like this (ahem, Chapek)
Nobel Prize ? The man and his company have been doing good for the environment long before it was popular to do so.  Now this unprecedented gesture?
Cool. Maybe I’ll grab a sweater or something to support!
Wow, that is amazing.  Ive never had any of their stuff, but they are definitely on my radar now.
Their stuff is expensive, but it is amazing to see how it is made and how hard they work to keep the carbon footprint as low as possible per coat. I love mine, and was already a lifelong customer, and this just adds to my confirmation bias on them having the best coats.
Patagonia is the shit, always has been
So impressed. Patagonia is the only brand I advertise on purpose. I still have a pair of rhythm pants from 2006, and I could turn them in and get a full refund or another pair of pants. I have so many articles of clothing, bags, gear. All tried and true. But that isn’t why I love them. Their mission is real. And, if you’ve ever been to Patagonia, they come by the label honestly. The sky really looks like that. 

Bravo, Patagonia.
Yvon Chouinard is a man that has transcended greed because he has seen and deeply experienced things that are greater than our man-made world.

I have the utmost respect for this man. I hope others in his category will see past the rat-race and will follow in his footsteps.

This guy is the MAN.
Patagonia reaching Patagucci status
Phenomenal. The company (and owner) has been accused of some as using environmental causes to drive sales… great to see Yvon put his money where his mouth is.
Edit: I'm wrong. The voting shares stayed controlled by the family. 

https://youtu.be/0Cu6EbELZ6I

Old: IRC Section 4943(g) otherwise known as the "Newman’s Own Exemption" at work here. It's been law since 2018 and we're now seeing the results of this avenue for non-profit funding. Hopefully it's for the better, on average.
Pretty incredible company and one that is well run and managed. I'm currently taking a Management and Organizational Behavior class and this company keeps coming up as one of the best run.
Some where republicans and conservatives are having a melt down right now.
This should be way higher on the news feed
I wish more companies would do this instead of bullshitting us that they care about climate.
Can someone do anymore?  Good man.  Can you imagine what would happen if greed disappeared?
Powerful message, I'm for it! Love that the empolyees are [celebrating](https://imgur.com/a/4wxB0WN) today too.
What does that even mean (genuine question)
On Patagonia's website, Yvon Chouinard explains how it works:

"100% of the company’s voting stock transfers to the Patagonia Purpose Trust, created to protect the company’s values; and 100% of the nonvoting stock had been given to the Holdfast Collective, a nonprofit dedicated to fighting the environmental crisis and defending nature. The funding will come from Patagonia: Each year, the money we make after reinvesting in the business will be distributed as a dividend to help fight the crisis."
“Earth is our only shareholder”
This move is much more interesting than the title indicates.

"The trust will get all the voting stock, which is 2% of the total, and will use it to create a “more permanent legal structure to enshrine Patagonia’s purpose and values.” It will be overseen by members of the family and close advisors."

In reality, they aren't "donating the entire company". Doing that would either liquidate it or else hand the reins to someone else. They're doing neither, because that would eliminate their control over the operation, which is exactly what they don't want.

What just happened is more like an irrevocable promise to keep doing what they've already been doing, but on a larger scale and with protections in place as family members start dying.
So one of the things that's always made me a little upset is that when you see some headline like "[insert some billionaire] loses 5 billion dollars", you know he's still going to live in comfort and lavishness for the rest of his life. He could go negative and be millions in debt and he'll still never end up struggling paycheck to paycheck like most people do.

This, though. This is one I'm not upset about. He deserves to spend the rest of his life living however he wants.
So buying Pategonia is like buying something from PBS... you can buy the DVD for $20 but when you buy it from PBS for $50 you are actually donating to them and getting a DVD.
I hope more follow his example! 🙏🏻
Well I need new camping gear and now they have jumped to the top of the list of stores I'm going to look at.
Great advertisement. Imma go buy me some patagonia clothing now.
Definitely inspired by his friend the Tompkins family that owned North Face and have donated so much land to the national parks in Patagonia.
Respect for putting the world at top of mind. I doubt any other lame ass evil corps have the guts to do the same. I love how evil corps preach but never practice.

We actually brought this up at a company meeting when they asked us to go back into the office. Some smart employee hit back talking about climate change. Leader actually choked and then rattled off some crap. Classic.
Never even heard of this place but I’m going to buy some stuff right now.
If anyone needed anymore reason to shop at Patagonia this is it.
Patagonia stuff is absolutely the longest lasting product you will buy if you are looking for jackets and other outdoorsy stuff.
Expensive but worth every penny. You buy once you buy right.
Yvon is a fucking legend, has been for decades. This is exactly what he would do.
Title says he donated entire company, but article says otherwise:

"The company’s non-voting stock, worth close to $3 billion, will be owned by a collective that will use all profits that aren’t reinvested into the business to fight climate change."

Or am I misunderstanding something?
Wow, a businessperson with a soul. Amazing. Time to go buy something from them.

Meh, they don't have tall sizes.
WOW. Such a “fully seeing the big picture” “you can’t take it with you” “paying it forward” and “leaving a living legacy” refreshing and selfless approach to what a multinational corporation can be.
Alright, fuck it, Imma go out and buy a Patagonia puffer jacket.  Bleeding my wallet dry for a good cause.
Money only magnifies your personality. 

(Usually that statement is a cutting insult. )
Damnit. Why wasn’t I born into this exceptionally cool ass family?
This is great, but unless they have a plan, that money will just get eaten away by the same useless nonprofits that have been floundering to help stop climate change for the last 40 years…

What I think they should actually do is sell the shares of the company to people that have pledged to allow the company to combat climate change and start their own department within the company with operations aimed at cleaning up the oceans. 

Our biggest issue is ocean acidification, once we reach that tipping point, everything in the ocean dies and we are completely effed. We get a massive amount of our oxygen from plankton, and we get a lot of our food from the ocean…
I have so many of their products bc paying extra for good is worth it to me. This is great news.
Have you seen the documentary 180° South?

I think it's on Prime and YouTube.

Yvon is in it. He says some things that I still quote to this day.

https://youtu.be/bCFnPYXO_bc
When Yerdle was still a thing, Patagonia would occasionally partner with them from what I remember.
Patagonia is the way!  Gear that actually lasts you.
..
What do you mean he is not  spending his billions in making a huge dick shaped rocket?
Leading the way in moral capitalism
From Ventura. I don’t personally shop there, but they are well respected and well known for their commitment. They also have a good reputation as employers.
put his name in the headline!! put some respect on that ish!
I love how people come on here and are angry at this.

Stay classy reddit.
> “While we’re doing our best to address the environmental crisis, it’s not enough. We needed to find a way to put more money into fighting the crisis while keeping the company’s values intact. One option was to sell Patagonia and donate all the money. But we couldn’t be sure a new owner would maintain our values or keep our team of people around the world employed.
Another path was to take the company public. What a disaster that would have been. Even public companies with good intentions are under too much pressure to create short-term gain at the expense of long-term vitality and responsibility.
Truth be told, there were no good options available. So, we created our own.”

Good people. Awesome intiative, we need more of this, especially from the mega rich, but not solely.
Before you go out and buy their newer stuff, check out their [Worn Wear](https://wornwear.patagonia.com) site for recycled gear!  Tons of cool discontinued items at awesome prices.
I'm confused on why nobody is mentioning that he is saving himself over 1 billion dollars in taxes moving the money into a nonprofit. Also, he is one of the leading chairmen of this new nonprofit so technically he still has control over the money he "donated"?
Turns out this is inaccurate... 

He skirts 700m in taxes.
It's sad when it's admirable to think about survival.
Patagonia isn't cheap! But I guess it's worth it...maybe.
I dont know how to word this in a non cynical way but like what happens to the money when someone does this realistically?

like does it just go towards research and funding for environmental science or specific research? 

just curious of how it works really
It says Patagonia founder gives company away and direct profits to fight climate change. Mad props, but I’m curious what happens to the Patagonia?
So, how is donating the company helping? Why doesn't he just... keep owning the company and donate his money?
"Fight climate change" how? Maybe i missed something but the link doesn't seem to specify exactly how this will work in fighting climate change. Which part of climate change? What was the financial upside for those involved? Do they realize fossil fuel companies have more than 3 billion? How will the money be used?
Time to step up, you rich parasites. Last chance to act like you have a soul. Every day you refuse to follow Patagonia’s example you forfeit a little more of our future.
Hopefully it goes into the right hands
If only this generosity could seep into the emotional spaces of many more billionaires
Amazing. I hope the money gets to the right organizations and people aren't taking their cut of his donation.
180 Degrees South really opened my eyes to Yvon and Doug Tompkins put back into Patagonia National Park. It’s an incredible story that shows why he decided to put his company into a Trust and make sure it’s always moving forward. 

There are good people out there. Don’t lose hope friends.
There’s a good leader
Well, hopefully three can be at least some difference made with such a massive donation. Good guy.
I have a lot of their stuff, including capilene underwear long johns from the mid 1990s.  
Amazing stuff!
What a wonderful thing to read.
Can't enjoy the outdoors if the outdoors keeps getting destroyed. Patagonia is a leader in sustainability.
This is just the cherry on top of the Inflation Reduction Act.
I have a Patagonia winter jacket from 2009 that's taken me all over the world on multiple continents. The pocket zippers tore from the seams last year. Sent it in, no questions asked, they repaired and sent it back. I'll be a Patagonia fanboy for life.
That’s fucking rad. Hopefully more billionaires follow suit
That’s how you do it.  What is Bezos doing with his hundreds of billions?  Buying another mega yacht?
Way too late to this but the business wars episode on Patagonia an the north face is wild. Nothing but respect for him.
Elon Musk?

Jeff Bezos?



Yeah, I didn't think so.
Hopefully this will go to rational climate causes like nuclear and electric cars.
The only jumper that lasted me 15+ years.
This man should be celebrated; what an exemplary individual! Blessings upon him
Fucking love patagonia, they make great stuff for climbing
This man and his family are my new hero.
I know it’s not the the point, but I think I’ll buy some Patagonia now…
Awesome dude! The Elon Musks and Bezos of this world should pay attention: this is how it’s done.
Very cool. A light in the current  darkness.
When I look up the Holdfast Collective, the only thing I found is a collective that is run by an Ex-Navy and does military stuff. This can't be the one right? Does anyone know if there is a website of these guys or even anything to read up?
Have a friend who does mountain/wilderness rescue here in the UK who gets a 40% discount with Patagonia so they can have proper gear without being too out of pocket. Amazing company and an amazing owner.
Definitely gonna start shopping this brand. Wow. Amazing
Can they finally sell their combat shirts through retail channels?
What exactly does “fight climate change” mean? Where is that money going?
Reddit is so funny. 

Everyone complaining that they’re broke and that life isn’t fair, cost of living going up, can’t afford to live. 

Then this thread comes along and everyone fistbumping each other since the have 300$ pantagonia tuques.