Climate modeler working for Exxon in the ‘70s and ‘80s must have been a very lonely job
We are entering the economic consequence phase.
I saw a Jim Gaffigan comedy routine on climate change denial, “I don’t know much about global warming, but I do know they stopped debating it.  Five years ago, there was always a guy on TV, ‘There’s no proof the earth is warming’.  And now that same guy is, ‘Well, what are you going to do?  The people who live on the coastline can sell their homes?’  To who?  ‘We’ll figure it out later on’.” 

[Jim Gaffigan](https://youtu.be/oHadmIPHcq0)
The oil and gas industry was aware of human caused climate change from burning fossil fuels since 1959. They were proved right in the 70s with the Exxon research. Then the industry requested the help of the evil Heritage Foundation. 

https://commonhome.georgetown.edu/topics/climateenergy/defense-denial-and-disinformation-uncovering-the-oil-industrys-early-knowledge-of-climate-change/#:~:text=As%20early%20as%201959%2C%20oil,contributed%20to%20anthropogenic%20climate%20change.
Yes, we collapsed the civilisation but for a moment we generated very good results for shareholders...
“So right up until Dec 31st of 2066 we can do whatever we want so long as we stop on Jan 1st of 2067!” - Exxon execs
At least they were honest enough to put the chance of an error in the report. Like "there's a 90% chance we're right on this."
Fermi paradox in motion
If anyone's looking for the source document, here it is:

[https://www.climatefiles.com/climate-change-evidence/1980-api-climate-task-force-co2-problem/](https://www.climatefiles.com/climate-change-evidence/1980-api-climate-task-force-co2-problem/)
Where’s the reference for the photo?
“They will still buy our oil” - Exxon executives
This is fake news, according to Republicans. Republicans continually deny climate change.
If we're gonna legally treat corporations as people, let's find a way to throw this one in prison.
Here we go, the apocalyptic future promised to the next generation is caused by the boomer economy we're nostalgic about.

There are dreams that are not worth pursuing anymore. Some were never a good thing even when they didn't have much impact yet.

We need to completely change our mental structure about what life is and what our achievements should be. Turns out it's only getting worse with fomo and the pressure to perform.

We should learn how to do nothing.

A thing not done is a thing that won't aggravate.

What can we do to fight climate change? Nothing, we can "do nothing at all" once in a while, more often.
But hey guys a small amount of people made a ton of money. Totally worth it. /s
The next page of this document is just as important
It's like trying to get someone to diet when they don't even think they're fat.

We will do nothing about this until we reach the point where doing nothing is no longer an option. The Great Lakes will evaporate while someone goes "Yeah, but I can still play one hour of Xbox, right??"
What would you choose?

1. Globally Catastrophic Effects 

2. $10m less in bonus
At least I’ll probably be dead by 2067. Good luck, bitches 🥳
They really tried to bury stuff like this at the time and lobby for their own protections. They still do both.

It would be insane if the kinds of people that lead these companies like Exxon ever had high level positions in government like head of the EPA or something.
Global temperatures have risen more slowly than this study predicted. It's worth noting that global temperatures have risen about 1.3 degrees celsius, putting us closer to their 2005 benchmark than 2038.

This isn't meant as an optimistic comment, though. Think of all of the devastating effects we're already seeing -- and then compare that to what 2.5c would look like. Let alone 5c. The whole thing is awful.
Exxon's very own Research shows that the company modeled and predicted global warming with ‘shocking skill and accuracy’ starting in the 1970s. 

https://news.harvard.edu/gazette/story/2023/01/harvard-led-analysis-finds-exxonmobil-internal-research-accurately-predicted-climate-change/

Let the Fossil Fuel companies pay for everyones losses, they've created this and have known about Climate Change for a long time.  Rising sea levels, higher temperatures and Hurricanes that are more unpredictable and extreme.
Well done everyone, we are ahead of schedule!

If we keep working hard like that, we may achieve the 2067 objective by 2050!
And remember these are the same companies paying millions to misinform and muddy the waters around this topic… for their bottom line
If I were a multi billionaire I would mail this cover sheet with an explanation that it was a study by Exxon in the 70s to every household. Run ads too.

They can send junk mail to everyone but not stuff like this?
There should be a class action lawsuit against oil companies, similar to the one against tobacco companies, which resulted in them paying over $200 billion (spread over 25 years). A current settlement would be even more expensive due to inflation. This could help fund a privately financed New Green Deal.
Unfortunately humans have known about the greenhouse effect for centuries and yet collectively decided to essentially do nothing to mitigate the problem until recently.
There is a real problem though that there would be global economic impacts if the necessary drastic actions were taken to stem C02 output.  Those impacts may even be as big as the medium term economic impacts of climate change (10-20 years)…. And they’d have a disproportionate impact on developing nations.

Obviously all options pale in comparison to the reality of the longterm consequences of global warming…but it’s to the point where solutions proposed need to acknowledge and attempt to minimize what some of those economic impacts would be.

Not because there’s a balance and the choice is hard…. But because it’s the only way anything is gonna get done.
So, we hit the 5 degree rise before 2067?
“Of course we knew it would kill everyone. That’s why we had to lie.”
I would like to see the original, full report but can’t find it via googling. Anyone know how to access it?
The Black report?

Yeah, not great, and it’s not like Arrhenius hadn’t already done similar (but less detailed) work many decades before
These studies were hypotheses offered by people contending that CO2 emission would offset the global cooling from sulfur emissions.  Neither side 'knew' anything for sure.

Sulfur emissions were eventually regulated due to acid rain impacts.  The big energy companies began to forget about CO2 issues.  The problem fell to my desk in 1980.  I reported "Actual results do not show any clear impact right now."  The guy I did the study for said "Good.  Keep watching.  By the time we can say anything for sure, there will be no way to stop this."  He also said "In Indonesia, the average person uses about one Christmas bulb worth of electricity.  When they discover refrigerators, this problem will become a disaster.  And when they learn about air conditioning, things will be hopeless.:

In the early 1990s when I told people "There's no way this can be attributed to natural variation," people said "We switched to gas so there should not be a problem." In the late 1990s when I said "This is out of control" they said "we only run these plants two weeks a year so we can collect money as backup capacity.  Our market share is so small we don't affect anything,"

At this point cleaning up the US industrial and utility markets is a political fight.  The fight for the environment is being waged by low cost Chinese electrical vehicles taking over most non-US markets.  Next somebody has to fix air conditioning. Don't expect innovative genius from the people selling the Divine Right of Dark Money.
Id vote if a candidate wanted to prosecute them.
https://m.xkcd.com/2500/

“I was really impressed by the accuracy of some of the report’s predictions about fossil fuel consumption. Then I realized, oh, right, of course.”

A great graphical summary of the report.
At least we’re on track. It’s the wrong track, but we’re on it.
I'm surprised OP has not attached the conclusion as well...

>At a 3% per annum growth rate of CO2, a 2.5°C rise brings the world economic growth to a halt in about 2025.

[https://www.climatefiles.com/climate-change-evidence/1980-api-climate-task-force-co2-problem/](https://www.climatefiles.com/climate-change-evidence/1980-api-climate-task-force-co2-problem/)

2nd to last page
They knew and covered it up
Relevant:  https://news.harvard.edu/gazette/story/2023/01/harvard-led-analysis-finds-exxonmobil-internal-research-accurately-predicted-climate-change/
The good thing of civilization ending sooner is that there will be nothing left for me to miss out.
What is the source of this image?
What’s the source of this image?
When can we lock up those who chose profit over the health of the planet and will cause millions of deaths world wide, serious question, when can we actually hold them to account?
I think this is all it should take to put Exxon into receivership.

The company should be tried criminally, seized by the govt., converted to something like A 301c or just have to give all of its profits for a very very long time to fixing the mess it caused, while being allowed to use some profits to reposition the company as a green energy endeavor.

Otherwise, it should get the corporate death penalty and be liquidated.

The people who have been in the C-suite should do jail time.

This is a crime against humanity, it is a crime against nature. It is no less than premeditated murder of the planet.
Every single big oil c-suite from the last fifty years deserves to be charged with genocide and locked in a 6x4 box for the rest of their days


Which should be a while considering they are all undead vampires
Exxon C-Suite: let's just file that away and pretend it doesn't exist.
Oh I hope they used this document in a responsible manner and shared it with the proper authorities and not shove it under the rug for the next guy to deal with. That would sure suck.
Worst scum of humanity
We are Great Filter'ing ourselves. Maybe in 1000 years civilization will have recovered enough to find the ruins of our time, assuming Earth isn't incompatible with humans by then.
At this point you can only feel bad for a new born now with what they are gonna deal with
Strong regional dependence? On what? To what?
After just recently watching the nuclear apocalypse film *Threads* this reminds me of the interstitial text.
The oil companies heavily investigated Climate Change and the impact on their business. Oil platforms are prone to storms. Then they realized they were primarily responsible and buried it
Good study.
Despite working for Exxon Mobile for 30+ years my dad still doesn’t believe climate change is real 🙄
Echoes of the cigarette companies
So you're saying there's a chance?!?
-Lloyd 
Exxon: “Whoops, can’t let this little doozy get out…”
*shredder noises*
The price for this must be aggravated assault with intent to murder and intent to defraud law enforcement.  They must be tried for murder and genocide and sued by future generations until they are either all dead, or in prison without parole until dead.

Murder must be punished with new punishment harsher than any punishment in all of human history.
They looked at it and thought, "Meh, I'll be dead by then."
Not a picture though
Holds up
Exxon literally helped develop climate science to try to get ahead of it and see what the issues would be. When they found out their business would suffer, they did a 180 and went scorched earth and pumped money into politicians and propaganda.


Same story as big tobacco all testifying that nicotine isn't addictive. There's no incentive when corporations face no real punishment 
If I make it I'll be 75 in 2067 probably ready to check out. What a world.
OP speaks the truth.

https://news.harvard.edu/gazette/story/2023/01/harvard-led-analysis-finds-exxonmobil-internal-research-accurately-predicted-climate-change/
Big oil vs the world on PBS or the BBC.

https://m.imdb.com/title/tt21356152/
Knowledge like this belongs to the world they're ruining. How is it not the most egregious crime to without it? Much less CONTINUE DOING IT
If there was ever a reason for the death penalty this is it. Traitors to the ENTIRE PLANET.
FYI we're at 2.5 and climbing
   Mb
2038 gonna be interesting for more than one reason.
#'70s
1 degree, nothing will change.

2.5 degrees we are fucked.

Seems like a perfectly fine and not at all a close margin of error that would destroy generations to come.
I hate thinking about what's being concealed and hidden from us nowadays
seems like the timeline isn’t too far off
Their timeline will become accurate, bottom line, they said they'll be dead by then, fuck it, let's do it, let's cook this bitch.
How astonishingly evil must one be to know that what you're doing will be "globally catastrophic," and say, "well, that's someone else's future problem."
As someone who has done carbon capture projects i can tell you that there are decades and decades of co2 capture and greenhouse gas scrubbing technologies in niche petrochemical journals going back as far as the 50s. It's insane.
Exxon fucked us so hard.
I don’t want to be that guy, but what is the source? Is it verified so I can share it around?
We need to burn more coal. Beautiful soot clouds will block dangerous sun rays. Problem solved. /s
2067

Were oil on a road to no where  ,

better hide inside,

Sun factor 80 and lead boots to stop you,

 blowing away in the wind ,.

 self inflating  buoyancy jackets,  to assist in storms surge. 

There's no longer any animals mating ,  we all lost the urge ,

we're gone extinct.
just kinda funny that i had friends that work for them and i was kinda not nice about what they did.

and im the bad guy.
HARD FACTS
if corporations are people

the death penalty would be appropriate
Is there a link to the entire document from Exxon? It would come in handy for my futile attempt at convincing a MAGAT
Stepping out hesitantly here as someone who works in the oil business with exposure to top executives, including exxon. I am expecting (but don't wish to be) downvoted because reddit but honestly want to contribute to the conversation in a constructive way in all earnestness.

This problem is real and we are very aware of it. We  live here too. Denial is also very real, particularly with older generations and lamentable. Unfortunately, the problem is even bigger than the average person imagines. Human beings aren't capable of voluntarily lowering their standard of living, and that is what it will take. Oil companies are producing a commodity that is demanded by the people and their government. If Exxon, for example, decided to shut in all their production today, the government would be in their office demanding they open the taps immediately, because the alternative is much higher prices for fuels, plastics, fertilizers, etc. The alternative leads to major shortages of all goods and services, particularly for the poorest people who can't bear the costs but do vote (in democratic systems).

It's a very complex problem, but it's one we bear as a species, not at the company level. Even if you shut down Exxon today, nothing actually changes- we require these products for us to be alive at all. How do we solve this problem? We really don't know, other than fewer people on earth.
So I might as well enjoy my life while I can. Chances are I’ll be long dead before 2067
Nothing in the photo indicates that this conclusion was drawn from any specific study, any specific company, or is legitimate in any way. I guess we should just trust this title and through confirmation bias many will consume and believe this without any critical thinking whatsoever.
My favorite place in the world - my Disneyland - ever since I was a kid, has always been the Natural History Museum. 

I can get lost in there for hours and hours. 

Recently I noticed that some of the displays have sponsors prominently displayed on the info plaque. 

Imagine my surprise when I see that many of them are sponsored by none other than the Shell Corporation. 

It seems sadly ironic that a display of fossilized dinosaurs, now preserved and displayed for us to learn from, has somehow ended up sponsored by the same companies selling liquid dinosaur whilst facilitating what may very well be *our species* very own demise.
So when do we nationalize the infrastructure and seize the vast fortunes accumulated by the executives and shareholders ?

My Tomorrow is wide open.
Yeah, if you turn the letters green and background black, it fits well in a terminal screen in the Fallout universe.
Soooo….nothing to worry about?
At the risk of getting downvoted, it’s ridiculous take to blame oil companies alone. They make the hydrocarbons available for market to buy. The world has insatiable demand for their product.  There have not been ready alternatives to the energy packed nature of hydrocarbons. Batteries are starting to get there but not there yet in energy density. 

It’s supply AND demand. Their energy has made possible the comfortable lives many people enjoy today. I think witch hunting the old guard is not productive. Make them part of the solution.
A lot of people are working their asses off to save this world from a global climate catastrophe and by all accounts they're succeeding. If you're a climate doomer who believes a collapse will happen, climate scientists are certain we've mitigated that risk.

When we signed the Paris Climate Agreement in 2015 we were on track for a 4-degree rise in temperature. Today, the consensus is a 2.5-degree rise. Horrible but not globally catastrophic because of the efforts made, and currently being made.
I am in no way disputing the message of this post but I doubt this is (literally) from a study. a quick search does suggest Exxon was pretty much right on the money with their early studies, but nowhere can I find these drastic conclusions, especially not the phrase "globally catastrophic effects".
I have friends who believe this stuff to be true yet they still had kids...
Oh my god.. would you stop this nonsense? This used to be a great thread to follow but it’s gone all political now.
Climate “modeling”…
That is all
Anyone could have typed this.