Other reasons include:

- Creating jobs
- Reducing traffic
- Distributing wealth across different areas.
1. Way too late but I’m glad they are doing it.
2. Only like 1/16th of the rails they are making will actually be high speed.
3. There’s still way too many existing passenger rail lines that don’t connect. 
4. Hopefully this means an east coast highspeed system, a west cost high speed system, and a high speed transcontinental system to connect the two in the future.
Welcome to the future hsr is amazing
I wish they would stop with the “it’s for climate change” when it’s just a good idea for the country in general.
I think that things being done to "Fight Climate Change" need to be rebranded. 

High speed rail just makes sense. It improves our infrastructure and should be a point of national pride and achievement.

Doing it to "Fight Climate Change" makes it less likely to succeed because it becomes political.
About time. Amtrak is an international shame
Sad that this thread is full of that famed American can't do attitude. Cynicism and fatalism are precisely the attitudes that let the ruling class get away with milking you for your last dollar while providing nothing of value. You should expect and demand success, not failure.
Right until the next Republican president comes along and kills it.
Change the pitch to "we're going to do this so you don't have to waste three extra hours fucking around in airports and in secondary transit every time you want to travel to another city, we don't even give a shit if you bring your own booze on the train."
Some of these proposals are underway now. California & Florida specifically.
Omg I really want this. I love trains. They are so convenient and efficient. No stressing about going through airport security. No stressing about driving for hours. And I can actually walk around instead of having to be sedentary for long periods of time.
How about we invest in it because american infrastructure sucks donkey balls? I feel like tacking "climate change" on to it will automatically make 1/2 of americans hate it.
Let's also invest in more public transit in cities and rezoning to help make cities more walkable
They will invest somewhere but we will never see high speed rail in the US in my lifetime. It's just another boondoggle.
Republicans will kill it
Just chipping in on every USA rail post I see:

I would love a high-speed rail through all the national parks. Would be legit a cool tourism idea
Choo choo motherfuckers 😤
man, if they can do the SF/LA one that would be crazy. especially depending on the other spots to get off.  Plan tickets round trip are under $100. so if they can do like... 40% off that, that would be huge. I don't mind the trip, even more so if I can have something to look at.  
  
would do just for fun.....in like... 15 years haha
US doesn't have a great history of spending this kind of money productively.
Maybe someone knows something I don’t, but as a Chicagoan, I can’t think of anyone who’s in a rush to be getting to and from St Louis to make that line worthwhile. If it were a cross country line and that was just one leg of it fine. But just between these 2 cities?🤷🏻
No it won’t.  I’ve been hearing about high speed rail between la to sf or la to Vegas since the early 90’s.
It's a nice rollout of ideas, but far, far, far too few. Maybe the plan is to announce more next year, but I can see these plans taking a decade and then the US spending a decade looking at the results.

We need MORE. We need a system. We need to start the High-Speed Train rollout like the Highway system was done. New York to Albany? Really? How about DC to Boston? You think it's going to be easier to build that high-speed train if you keep waiting? All across the country is unchecked development with no planning. The government needs to step in and force development expectations for a train line to prevent land from being thrown to low-density housing.
Hope they do it faster than Seattle's light rail.
Wish they would separate passenger lines and freight lines so it would potentially be a lot easier for trains to get around and not need to be planning for moving freight lines.
I would very much like bullet train from Seattle to San Fran in my lifetime.  It would be quite nice to get to San Fran from Portland in 2.5-4 hours.  It would, in my opinion, allow for people living rural to accept jobs in high cost of living areas.
the LA to Las Vegas one was not mentioned.

not that such a rail would help do anything about climate change tho since the very existence of Las Vegas goes against fighting climate change.
We need high speed train connecting major US AND Canadian cities
Here’s the problem with high speed rail in the US. We aren’t building our cities to work well with rail or public transport. Everything is designed around the car. And once you are at your destination you will still need a car to get anywhere. So you might as well drive or fly.
It cuts through our fields everywhere. So I’m sure along the way it’s a lot of counter work. They been working for so many years. Finally have some pillars up lol
Snow piercer?
Dozens of people will use it
It's fun to think about what the u.s. would look like had oil and auto lobbying been just a little less effective.
If they have a damn about climate change, they would kill the fossil fuel industry.
So we’ll get 10 miles of track laid and then the GOP will shut it down citing noise complaints from the four citizens that live in the area. 

Something something you shut down our oil pipeline so we shut down your train.
I just want the Denver-Kansas City route to open back up! I know it can’t possibly be in high demand, but that drive back and forth is awful. It would be so easy to connect them since there’s practically nothing in between. Nice and stable flat land all the way across the state of Kansas. I think it would be a great proof of concept route for that reason.
Anyone else picture an anthropomorphic train shaking its fist at the sky?
Surprised to not see any idiots talking about Elon Musk's hyperloop snakeoil when sorting by controversial lol
It's not going to be bullet trains or anything, but I'm glad they are doing work on the Maine to Boston line.  I'd much rather ride the train than do the drive now, and if it gets better, even better.
How's a train going to fight??

Riddle me that climate scientists?
Crickets in Canada
I wish my state IA gave any solitary fuck to make a line out of DSM to the rest of the network instead of being forced to eat shit and drive 2 1/2-3 hrs to any transit hub.
Shame it only benefits a couple states... I'd love to see railroads implemented nationwide like every other decent country....
As an American, it’s finally time. It took long enough and it’s a great solution for trips that take about 2-4 hours driving- there too short to fly but a very long drive.
Every single one of these will lose money and need to be subsidized by the government.
For like the 50th time. It's not going to go anywhere. America is not mature enough to have a high speed train.
Well well well if it isn't my old friend, too little too late
I’ll believe it when I see it.
I hope so but I’m highly skeptical
About 40 years too late
I will believe it when i see it
Lmao absolutely HUGE news.
It's not high speed. It's just another new train. That's it. Some incredibly small percentage of the tracks will be "high speed."
Until Donald Trump is elected and cancels everything good again.

USA can’t move forward with this stupid 2 party system
Day late and a dollar short
And are they going to also electrify the rail network or keep using diesel?
When Japan first completed their bullet train, I don't think they had climate change in mind. 

Look at China now. High speed trains connecting allajor cities. Makes the west look like the stone ages.
High speed train won't fight climate change.

Reducing the needs of transports will.
Who cares if it gets political? Christianity is on decline and red states can't keep the kids around so all we have to do is wait for them to die. Just keep waiting. Most of the problems in America don't have 20 years left in them.
Bullshit. They’ll have a big reveal but it’ll be infrequent and expensive as hell
Can someone please tell me why isn't everything in USA already connected via a proper train network? 

Whenever I read Americans talk about travel they either drive hundreds of kilometers or take flights, both of which HAVE to be either annoying or expensive. 

In India the railways serves around ~~10 million~~ (Edit: It's actually 24 million) passengers every single day. It's quite affordable plus it's so much fun. I genuinely enjoy train rides a lot more than flights
How’s the 60 billion dollar rail project in CA going?
High speed trains connecting major cities and branching out trains connecting to smaller cities, with electric busses driving to the final destination. That's what should've been there in the first place... also in Europe. The idea that everybody needs to own a car has always been terrible.
Nobody on the planet now will live to see the day high speed rail runs from San Francisco to Los Angeles.
George Carlin was right—we are such war hawk shitheaded country. We FIGHT cancer, we FIGHT childhood obesity, we FIGHT illiteracy etc etc. 

Everything is a fucking fight. We don’t just calmly approach problems, we “fight” everything. Like climate change is fucking Godzilla and not a basic scientific problem of our own doing that we’ve understood for literal decades.
There’s a million other reasons besides climate change to invest in HSR, but I’m glad they’re at least thinking about it. It’s time to catch up to other first world nations.
This is not likely going to what anyone is thinking. Maybe some upgrades to continuous rails, maybe removing some street rail crossings. Mostly in California. Thats probably it. No new routes. No additional parallel tracks. No electrification.
Hope it works but...

How will they convince a lot of Americans who will still want to drive and fly?

Unless it's an affordable alternative, it may not get much use.
Here’s some math:

Claim is that all this can be done for $10Billion. I’ll bet if we actually follow through the final price tag will wind up being closer to $200B given our history with these types of projects, but let’s take them for their word.

Let’s say each leg costs about the same, so $2B each.

A one way ticket from LA X to SFO on Southwest right now costs less than $100, but we’ll round up to account for luggage and other possible fees.

That means for the same money to build the so-called high speed rail, we could just pay for *20 million* flights.

According to Google, about 2.2 million people fly between LA and SF annually. So we could pay for about double that capacity for 10 years for the same price as building the rail.

Does anybody think a ticket on one of these new fangled trains from LA to SF will be $50-$100 like a plane ticket is today? 

If there’s a lot more demand for non-auto LA to SF travel, it sure seems like a much more economical approach would be to just subsidize more airplane capacity and make the tickets like $30. That $2B could last 25 years or more and by then much more of the car traffic will be electric.
I have been shouting as loudly as possible for a while that any Canadian or American politician not running on creating multiple high speed rail networks connecting various parts of the country is stupid and missing out on running away with an election.

It would create a ridiculous amount of high paying jobs, drastically reduce congestion, make moving much easier, create a significantly more connected country(ies), and generally just benefit literally everyone. Even the billionaires who’d get to purchase the building contracts
Welcome to modern times america, maybe stop voting in republicans. In fact if this gets done, it will be because we elect a republican government to repeal it. The rest of the world is ahead of us on EV adoption as well, because they actually started to build their charging networks a decade ago.

We became the worlds super power because the rest of the world god blown up during WWII, and we have slowly quit investing in our own country. Making sure it keeps its place in the sun. Making sure we keep up with the rest of the world as new technology comes out. But republicans became more and more radical and more and more against government spending on anything but the military. SO every time we either have a republican admin, or a mixed admin under a dem president, all progress in improving this country stops.
Giant waste of money.
I'm sorry, but anyone considering $10B an "investment" in HSR is a buffoon.
[deleted]
Love it! Lets do MORE shit like this!
Acquiring the land to build new high speed rail lines is a huge and expensive problem.  I think it would be better to use that money to improve the quality of the rail lines we already have so existing passenger rail lines would allow our existing passenger trains to go an average of 80 miles/hour (faster than cars on average).

I would also make incentives to encourage private companies to compete with Amtrak in providing passenger rail service on existing national rail lines. Amtrak needs some competition.

Also, carbon taxes should be used to ensure that all flights of less than two hours subsidize the cost of all train trips less than two hours so it is always less expensive to take a train to get somewhere in two hours than it is to take a flight to get there.
This week go just like the investment in high speed internet
Here’s to hoping it’s affordable to ride it. All my Amtrak vacation dreams get destroyed when I see the price tag.
I love trains. I would use regional rail all the time if it existed. 

Also....the Federal Government is obviously not the one to get this done. Some other organization needs to do it.
I hope this works out better than the hundreds of billions we ~~invested~~ dumped on the telecoms for better internet
*for one more year until it all gets reversed by the next administration.
Due for completion in October 2086
I'll believe it when I see it.  Right now, I'd bet my left arm this goes absolutely nowhere/gets stuck in committee hell.
Never going to happen. California has been working on theirs for ten years. Not even close to being finished.
Great, so now their trains can derail AT HIGH SPEED
So why is this not going to have insane cost overruns all previous US hight speed rail projects had?

OK, no reason, they just hope it won't.
What's the point of taking a $100 high speed train ride and then having to rent a car at the destination for another $100 due to the lack of public transportation?
Transcontinental railroad 2.0
Monorail?
I love how the biggest most positive impact on climate change was remote work, we had pollution levels the lowest theyve been in decades and yet we are allowing companies to force us back to commuting for hours. And giving a consolation prize of a train.
I take the Acela a decent amount in the northeast and it is a great way to travel but not really that high of a speed. Most of the time saving is from stopping at less stations.
I need Chicago to Cleveland yesterday
Nothing the US can do by itself to combat Climate Change will do anything of countries like   China and India won’t do their part.
Not with our government. They'll award it to their friends which will end up 100x the cost, and half the project complete.
No it won't
U.S. can't even keep low speed trains on the track.
Half the money will be grifted and next to nothing substantial will be built.
Everybody knows that the initial tax dollars for high-speed rail projects will be soaked up by "research" and then nothing will be built. This is the way.
Never happening. Sorry
And hardly anyone will use it because they are far slower and not much less than planes. What a colossal waste of our money. 

I’ll bet anything they never break even and this archaic idea costs us money every year to maintain.
Waiting for Elon to start pushing Hyperloop again until all this silly talk about high speed rail dies down a bit.