Thai authorities have made public transport in Bangkok free for one week, in an attempt to reduce the number of private cars on the roads and tackle air pollution. 
Smog has already led to hundreds of school closures and employees working from home.
Huge crowds gathered in Hong Kong to get a glimpse of Elder Sister and Little Brother

The star was stopped from busking ahead of his concert in the southern Indian city of Bengaluru.
The BBC visits Myanmar's Shwe Kokko, alleged to be a hub of fraud, money-laundering and human trafficking.
It comes as Sheikh Hasina, who was ousted in protests last year, announced she would address the country via social media from India.
Officials say the unlikely pair fell into the water when the tiger was chasing the boar.
Vikas Pandey and Samira Hussain explain how the chaos unfolded in northern India.

The surge happened when people who were sleeping on the riverbank were trampled by other pilgrims.
Several people are feared killed in the crush at the Kumbh Mela, the world's largest religious gathering.
Over a million people are camping out in the cold for a month on the banks of the Ganges river.
The impeached president said he will comply with questioning to "prevent unsavoury bloodshed."
Large crowds of critics and supporters of impeached President Yoon gathered outside his residence before his arrest. 
The BBC's Samira Hussain describes what she saw at the world's largest religious gathering.
The BBC is at the Mahakumbh Mela, the Hindu festival expected to draw 400 million visitors over six weeks.
The 7.1 magnitude quake killed scores of people in the mountainous region, with many more injured.
Backers of Yoon Suk Yeol waved signs reading "stop the steal", as police called off an attempted arrest.
The rocket, which took off from a site north of Chennai, places two satellites in orbit.
The BBC's Jean Mackenzie speaks to bereaved relatives waiting to know more about the Jeju Air crash.
The BBC's Asia correspondent visited the scene, where investigators are sifting through the fuselage.
The Jeju Air flight landing at Muan Airport had 181 passengers on board when it crashed off the runway.
Lawmakers vote to impeach acting president Han Duck-soo, two weeks after voting to impeach the president.

Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved.  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
 