


Manage your account

MUMBAI (Reuters) - The western Indian state of Maharashtra has formed a panel to study a proposal to ban petrol and diesel vehicles in Mumbai city amid worsening air quality and only allow electric or gas driven vehicles, it said in an order.
Any ban on petrol, diesel vehicles in the financial capital, if implemented, may not only impact automobile manufacturers, but also citizens and businesses which rely heavily on these vehicles amid inadequate electric vehicle charging infrastructure and still developing metro rail networks.
The city, home to the country's stock exchanges and offices of several global banks and multinationals, has seen air quality worsen since the pandemic amid growing traffic congestion and several ongoing infrastructure and construction projects.
Maharashtra's government said it has formed a seven-member committee to study the proposal of banning petrol and diesel vehicles and only allowing electric and compressed natural gas vehicles in the Mumbai metropolitan region following a court directive. The government order is dated Jan. 22 but gained public attention on Tuesday after Indian media extensively reported it.
Earlier in January the Bombay High Court in its own public interest litigation directed the Maharashtra state government to constitute a committee of experts to study and see if it is feasible to phase out petrol-diesel driven vehicles.
"The vehicular emission is one of the main sources of air pollution. The roads in Mumbai metropolitan region are chocked with vehicles and density of the vehicles on the roads is alarming," the court said in an order on Jan. 9.
Air quality in Mumbai has incrementally worsened since 2020, showing 12% increase in air quality index according to open-source air quality monitoring platform AQI that shows real time air quality data on its website.
India has some of the world's most polluted cities including its capital New Delhi, which often see its air quality index plummet to unhealthy levels during winter.
The committee will submit the results of its study in three months, the state said.
The state is also considering a policy, which will make it compulsory for car and bike owners in the state to have certified parking area, in absence of which new vehicle registration could be rejected, Indian news media reported earlier this month, quoting the state transport commissioner Vivek Bhimanwar.
(Reporting by Dhwani Pandya; editing by David Evans)
A shark bit the hands off a woman along the shore of a Caribbean beach while she was trying to take a picture with it.
During his presidential campaign, Donald Trump promised to end federal taxation of Social Security retirement benefits.  White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt told reporters that the president and Republican lawmakers have discussed including this move in a budget package.  One of Trump's actions on the first day of his return to the White House could affect the operational aspects of Social Security.
President Donald Trump's plans to slash the federal workforce are underway. BI spoke to four federal workers who voted for Trump on their thoughts.
Veteran strategist James Carville argued during a podcast episode that Democrats are “overwhelmed” and that he has not figured out a way the party can combat the flurry of news President Trump has made since returning to the White House. “Bannon is right. We are flooded in s— and we are searching for a way…
It's a ballsy move, but two Ohio State Representatives have introduced a bill that would make it illegal for men to have unprotected sex if it's not intended to make a baby.
AOC hosted a webinar explaining migrants’ rights this week
As President Donald Trump approaches the first-month mark in his second term, he has moved with dizzying speed and blunt force to reorder American social and political norms and the economy while redefining the U.S. role in the world.  At the same time, he has empowered Elon Musk, an unelected, South African-born billionaire, to help engineer the firing of thousands of federal employees and potentially shutter entire agencies created by Congress.  The president has also imposed scores of new tariffs against U.S. trade partners and threatened more, even as economists warn that will pass costs on to U.S. consumers and feed inflation.
National Nuclear Security Administration officials attempted to notify some employees who had been let go that they are now due to be reinstated but struggled to find them because they didn't have their new contact information.
MSNBC host Michael Steele rebuked Republicans in a fiery Saturday morning monologue in which he alleged that President Donald Trump has given DOGE director Elon Musk “absolute power.” Addressing co-hosts Alicia Menendez and Symone Sanders Townsend on The Weekend, Steele blew his top as they discussed whether the judicial system could rein in Trump’s power and help Democrats fight back. Townsend, a Democratic strategist, asked Steele, “What would you have us do?”
This administration is deeply insensitive and deeply unserious.
"Unmanned capabilities merit continued investment but they are far from capable of replacing F-35 and may not be for some time."
A major lawsuit against Elon Musk just got assigned to his new nightmare: Judge Tanya Chutkan.
Ukraine has handed a revised draft minerals accord back to the US as it seeks to stop Donald Trump cutting off military aid for its fight against Russia.
Harmful algae bloom off south-west coast blamed for deaths of marine life and poses threat to beaches
In September 2021, Sean Spicer - the former Trump administration press secretary and peripatetic cable news opinionator - received a politely threatening email from President Joe Biden’s White House. The note offered him a choice: “please” resign from a Naval Academy advisory board that President Donald Trump had appointed him to before leaving office, or Biden would fire him - that very evening.Subscribe to The Post Most newsletter for the most important and interesting stories from The Washing
President Donald Trump's return to the White House is poised to bring significant changes -- and already has -- one of which is bills. If you're worried about having to shell out more money for some...
One expert says these so-called "super pigs" — wild boars that were deliberately bred with domestic pigs – are an "ecological trainwreck."
Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on Friday that China will "play along to the end" if the United States is bent on suppressing the country even though Beijing does not wish to be in conflict with Washington.  Wang, speaking at the Munich Security Conference, said China would respond resolutely to unilateral "bullying" practices, but hopes the U.S. can work together with it in the same direction.  Earlier this month, U.S. President Donald Trump slapped an additional 10% tariff on all Chinese goods despite having what he had described as a "good" telephone call with Chinese leader Xi Jinping weeks earlier.
Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) urged Secretary of State Marco Rubio to explain the department’s plan to purchase $400 million in armored Tesla Cybertruck vehicles, calling out tech billionaire Elon Musk’s “glaring conflict of interests.” In a letter to Rubio Thursday, Blumenthal sought information on the steps the State Department has taken to address concerns surrounding…
GOP lawmakers try to intervene with the Trump administration as local fallout grows.
Conservative lawyer and anti-MAGA activist George Conway took to MSNBC on Saturday morning to alert viewers that President Donald Trump’s interference with the judicial process has pushed the nation’s prosecutors to the brink of mutiny. “We’re seeing a Justice Department, including the FBI, that is on the edge of a full-scale revolt,” Conway said. Conway’s former wife, Kellyanne Conway, served as an adviser to Trump during his first term. The couple’s opposing views attracted considerable media
The AP, which is considered the gold standard of independent journalism, called Trump's retaliation an "alarming" violation of the First Amendment
Scott Turner Department of Housing and Urban Development secretary, announced a new Department of Government Efficiency Task Force Thursday to “eliminate waste, fraud and abuse" at HUD.
Misinformation concept creep is getting out of hand.
"This type of sea snake can be more venomous than a cobra and potentially lethal to humans."
A telling preview clip of President Donald Trump and Elon Musk’s first joint interview reveals the Republican leader confronting the “President Musk” jibes. Speaking to Fox News star Sean Hannity, Trump shared that Musk called and warned him that “they’re trying to drive us apart.” “I said, ‘Absolutely,’” said Trump. He mocked, “We have breaking news: Donald Trump has ceded control of the presidency to Elon Musk. President Musk will be attending a cabinet meeting.”
Collins, Murkowski, Cassidy, and Tillis were supposed to be a bulwark against Trump, but now they’re his comrades, writes John Casey.
Some of the fired probationary employees included on-the-ground staff at facilities where nuclear weapons are built.
Sen. Jim Justice, R-W.Va., reacts to Democratic opposition to DOGE and Elon Musk’s government spending cuts on ‘The Faulkner Focus.’
The world needs more people like this!
President Donald Trump announced his administration will study reciprocal tariffs, but stopped short of implementing them at this time.
A framed copy of the New York Post's cover featuring President Donald Trump's mug shot has been hung on a wall just outside the Oval Office, photos show.  The mug shot, taken when he was booked into the Fulton County Jail in Georgia in 2023, can be seen in a hallway in photos taken when Trump met with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday.  The hallway leads from the Oval Office to the Cabinet Room where it could be seen by world leaders and others visiting the Oval Office.
The White House sent social media into a frenzy when it shared a shocking Valentine’s Day message to undocumented migrants from its official Instagram account. There was no love involved. “Roses are red, violets are blue. Come here illegally, and we’ll deport you,” the post reads.
MOSCOW (Reuters) -Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and U.S. Secretary of State Marco Rubio discussed the situation in Ukraine on Saturday, as well as the removal of "unilateral barriers" set by the previous U.S. administration, Moscow said.  U.S. and Russian officials are to start talks in the coming days on ending Moscow's war in Ukraine after U.S. President Donald Trump shocked European allies by calling Russian President Vladimir Putin and declaring an immediate start to the talks.
The Department of Justice fired multiple immigration judges Friday, according to two sources familiar with the decision and a statement from one of the judges on LinkedIn.
Trump's administration has been playing fast and loose with the rule of law, favoring radical action over caution for its legality.
Per a new report in the New York Times, the President would like to replace the grass “with a hard surface to resemble a patio like the one he has at Mar-a-Lago.”
The American vice-president said people praying in their homes could be arrested under Scots law.
"I'm trans, and some family went out of their way to gloat about their vote, knowing what it meant for me."
An expert on UFOs breaks down the importance of President Trump declassifying government files he believes holds "the smoking gun" and answers to federal secrets.
There's once again potential for more snow in the St. Louis region, both before this weekend ends and as the new workweek unfolds.
The D.C. Circuit panel voted, 2-1, against the president’s bid to immediately remove Hampton Dellinger.
The last-minute decision to rescind the layoff order for IHS came as healthcare workers waited for bad news
Nato is at odds with Ukraine over its battlefield tactics, with British defence sources accusing Volodymyr Zelensky’s army of wasting expensive weapons and equipment, The Sunday Telegraph can reveal.
"This study updates how we understand [ozone] pollution."
It seems like suddenly everyone is an "expert" on FERPA, an obscure privacy law that most of us had never heard of a week ago.
"What a negotiator this Donald Trump is,” Kimmel said sarcastically.
An intense Israeli military raid had already sent Qusay Farahat fleeing his home in the occupied West Bank, but the offensive has since expanded, threatening a relative's house where he sought shelter.Israel has occupied the West Bank since 1967 and carries out regular raids against Palestinian militants, but the current offensive in the north is the longest continuous one in the territory in two decades.
The United States lost its first nuclear weapon exactly 75 years ago when a Convair B-36 Peacemaker jettisoned a single freefall nuclear bomb before crashing in northwestern British Columbia, Canada.  This was the first of at least 32 known U.S. nuclear weapon accidents, known as Broken Arrows, which are defined as the accidental launching, firing, detonating, theft, or loss of a weapon.  Just before midnight on Feb. 13, 1950, a B-36B from Strategic Air Command’s 7th Bombardment Wing-Heavy, opened its bomb bay doors at around 8,000 feet, around 55 miles northwest of Bella Bella, on the north coast of British Columbia.
NEW YORK — A high school teacher in south Jersey is being investigated by the Secret Service over a social media post mulling the assassination of President Donald Trump. Fred Wilson, an 11th grade special education and social studies teacher at Egg Harbor Township High School, originally made the remarks on his Facebook page, which has since been deleted, the Press of Atlantic City reported. ...