


Manage your account

Utility giant Duke Energy is retiring its Allen Steam Station, a coal-fired power plant near Charlotte, North Carolina, to make way for its largest battery storage system, a major step toward cleaning up the energy grid, Canary Media reported.
Since 1957, Allen Steam Station produced 1,155 megawatts of coal-powered electricity before four of its five units shut down. Duke's energy-storage system, however, is expected to hold even more power: a total of 2,700 megawatts of energy across its service areas by 2031.
This transition is part of a broader shift away from coal, driven by the need for clean energy sources. Duke's choice to meet grid energy needs with batteries over natural gas marks a break from past practices, joining a growing trend alongside solar leaders like California, Texas, and parts of the Southwest.
Do you think our power grid needs to be upgraded?
   Definitely   
   Only in some states   
   Not really   
   I'm not sure   
Click your choice to see results and speak your mind.
The construction will come in phases. First, Duke will build a battery system that can supply 50 megawatts of electricity to the grid continuously for up to four hours. It's slated for completion by the end of 2025.
By October 2027, a larger, more powerful battery system will replace the final coal unit. These batteries will store excess energy and provide reliable power during peak demand, a regional first for large-scale battery adoption.
That said, Duke's batteries will "not just rely on solar" during the transition, spokesperson Bill Norton told Canary. To ensure 24/7 grid reliability, Duke is also building a 400-megawatt natural gas turbine nearby for prolonged demand surges, meaning gas will be mixed with solar to generate electricity.
Grid batteries help stabilize energy supply during peak usage, reducing outages during extreme weather. They also store excess renewable energy, such as solar power, an area where North Carolina excels nationally. That reduces reliance on dirtier fuels, lowering planet-warming pollution while improving air quality. An ample supply of clean energy also makes electricity cheaper for surrounding communities.
The replacement of coal plants with battery storage joins a growing number of coal-powered utilities shutting their operations. One of the nation's largest coal-fired plants in Ohio is set to close or be converted into a cleaner energy source by 2031. Coal plants in New Hampshire will close shop by 2027 and be repurposed into solar farms and battery capacity for offshore wind turbines.
As Duke's spokesperson put it: "Repurposing Allen's existing transmission system and infrastructure enables a more efficient clean energy transition."
Join our free newsletter for good news and useful tips, and don't miss this cool list of easy ways to help yourself while helping the planet.

A shark bit the hands off a woman along the shore of a Caribbean beach while she was trying to take a picture with it.
Solar panels have gotten so cheap that the plant, born of an old attempt at harnessing the power of the sun, appears to be obsolete.
One expert says these so-called "super pigs" — wild boars that were deliberately bred with domestic pigs – are an "ecological trainwreck."
Anti-Theft Aktion Amid a spate of vandalism at Supercharger stations, Tesla appears to be employing countermeasures to head off the theft of its valuable copper charging cables. For years now, opportunists have targeted electric vehicle charging stations for the copper wiring that powers them. With Tesla Supercharger stations lacking physical security guards, thieves have had little stopping them from stealing the metal worth up to $5.20 per pound — until now. In a post on X, Tesla charging czar
"This type of sea snake can be more venomous than a cobra and potentially lethal to humans."
“Tesla is really crushing it.”
The world needs more people like this!
Florida biologists captured the heaviest panther ever recorded in the state as part of a research program into the endangered animal's movements.
There's once again potential for more snow in the St. Louis region, both before this weekend ends and as the new workweek unfolds.
Elon Musk's antics have gotten so out of control that even his flunkies at Tesla are starting to get worried. According to a report from The Washington Post, there's growing sentiment among employees that Musk — already involved in multiple enterprises before his foray into politics — has become "disengaged" from the automaker as he serves as President Donald Trump's right hand man, leading the so-called Department of Government Efficiency. The employees range from rank and file to senior manage
One thing is certain: The natural world holds plenty of secrets.
Harmful algae bloom off south-west coast blamed for deaths of marine life and poses threat to beaches
This was the third earthquake recorded in South Carolina in 2025 after 30 were confirmed last year, according to the USGS.
The "choco-holic" opossum turned out to also be dealing with lead toxicity, according to those who treated her
"The beauty of the batteries is that if there’s energy in them, they can be used for unexpected needs."
"It can filter water nearly 10 times faster than classic commercial nanofiltration membranes."
Another 5 to 10 inches of snow is coming to Metro Detroit. Here's the timing and how much you can expect outside your door.
"Our ambition is to advance this technology to the next phase of commercialization."
On Friday, the storied coastal road had dissolved into a river of mud and debris after a powerful rainstorm sent those burned hillsides careening toward the ocean, turning canyons into rivers of mud and rocks.
After receiving several inches of rain Saturday, Clarksville's government released a statement discussing flash floods in the city and the surrounding areas.
The line of storms that spurned at least two confirmed tornadoes have moved out.
Snow, ice and high winds are all threats from this weekend winter storm. Here's our latest forecast, including the latest National Weather Service alerts.
Winter's grip is only going to get firmer. Record lows and a winter storm are on the horizon. Here's our latest outlook.
Much of the Big Bend, including Leon County, is under a tornado watch this morning as a severe storm system sweeps across the area.
At 14 degrees, the ion spread rate remained at 84% of what it was at 77 degrees.
The weather has not been kind to us over the last week. Sadly, it will only be getting worse. Today is our one and only chance to experience seasonal-average temperatures. The rug gets pulled out from under us later tonight, with arctic air returning. Highs today will climb into the 40s under grey skies with […]
At least three people, including a child, have been killed after a catastrophic and historic flooding event unfolded across portions of four states over the weekend as a powerful storm system produced several threats across the eastern half of the U.S.
A new winter storm is on the horizon, and it could bring heavy snow and ice to the Central U.S. before potentially taking aim at the Northeast. Here's what you need to know.
The ground keeps shaking in Southern California as multiple earthquakes strike the area in one week.
"If it's possible, let them compensate us and relocate us because it's no longer appealing."
Does it make economic and ecological sense to remove Indian River Lagoon causeways? Brevard wants a federal study of removing State Road 528 causeway.
UPDATE: 7:25 AM: The National Weather Service reports trees were reported down along Highway 225 south of Interstate 65. MOBILE, Ala. (WKRG) — Storm damage is being reported around the News 5 area. No tornadoes touched down but strong winds and rain brought down trees and powerlines in several places. In Mobile a tree fell […]
With the cost of everything increasing due to stubborn inflation figures, finding cheaper alternatives for necessities like groceries is more important than ever. That's why we'll look at groceries...
From Bowling Green to Hazard, community leaders and law enforcement officials have posted photos of road conditions and flood damage on social media alongside warnings to residents statewide to avoid travel if possible.
St. Paul police arrested a man they believe stole a bronze statue of the famous author, F. Scott Fitzgerald, after a scrapyard reported the suspect tried selling parts of the statue, which was cut into pieces.
FEMA is doubling down on its decision to not test soil after cleanup of toxic wildfire ash and debris in Los Angeles County, despite public outrage.
The latest counts from the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, or FWC, show background to moderate levels along the Lee and Collier coastlines.
The NWS is collecting snowfall data from the winter weather system that impacted southeast Wisconsin from Friday, Feb. 14 into Saturday, Feb. 15.
A firefighter and inspector with the Los Angeles Fire Department is expected to be OK after making a harrowing escape when his SUV was swept away in a debris flow and plunged roughly 30 feet into the Pacific Ocean Thursday evening. “Here’s something that I’ve never really seen before. A Fire Department SUV sitting in […]
The worst of the rainfall in the first atmospheric river to hit San Diego this year has passed, but the impacts will still be felt for the next few days at the region's beaches.
Prepare to stay home Sunday as 25-35+ cm of snow blankets much of southern Ontario. Whiteout conditions are possible at times
As the greater Portland metro area region thaws out from two rounds of winter weather for the past two days, some people who were forced to abandon their cars stuck in snow overnight are attempting to salvage their vehicles.
It may be Valentine’s Day, but New England is not feeling the love from Mother Nature this weekend as a winter storm threatens to bring snowy and icy conditions across the region.
A pair of threats played out across the South this weekend. Here's what you need to know.
After a week heavy water releases through Shasta Dam, Lake Shasta is still more full than usual. Here's how much rain water the lake received.
The temptation to see marine animals up close plagues humans all over the world.
Red tide is caused by a harmful algae bloom. It can bring respiratory problems and even fish kills in high concentrations.
The San Juan Creek in California was flowing uncontrollably on Friday after an atmospheric rain that hit Southern California on Thursday.
All of Michigan is expected to see accumulating snow Friday into Saturday, according to the National Weather Service.
Security cameras captured the moment a tornado tore through Oxnard on Thursday afternoon, damaging roofs and carports as residents took shelter inside their homes. Emergency calls from the Ocean-Aire Mobile Home Community and neighboring Country Club Mobile Estates recorded the panic as the storm struck. About a dozen homes and structures sustained severe damage, including […]