
**This is a heavily moderated subreddit. Please note these rules + sidebar or get banned:**


* If this post declares something as a fact, then proof is required
* The title must be fully descriptive
* Memes are not allowed.
* Common(top 50 of this sub)/recent reposts are not allowed (posts from another subreddit do not count as a 'repost'. Provide link if reporting)

*See [our rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/interestingasfuck/wiki/index#wiki_rules.3A) for a more detailed rule list*


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/interestingasfuck) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Everyone knows this so why is it demonised?
I am completely onboard with nuclear power as a great way to shift energy production away from fossil fuels, but nothing about this graph suggests it is either the fastest or most efficient method. Taking this single Our World in Data graph and slapping that title onto it is completely disingenuous given the other graphs Our World in Data have readily available for decoupling CO2 emissions from GDP:

[Change in per capita CO₂ emissions and GDP](https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/co2-emissions-and-gdp-per-capita)

[Countries that achieved economic growth while reducing CO2 emissions](https://ourworldindata.org/images/published/decoupling-economic-growth-and-emissions_1350.png)
This is what European Green parties fought against for decades.
It’s almost like Big Oil controls climate policies.
Wait, the German one looks exactly the same? No nuclear though

https://preview.redd.it/2xlammxr5m5d1.png?width=3400&format=png&auto=webp&s=3e46254dbfa0e7d48d17babc2086ba7b3ba7ca37
Strange.. if you overlay it with the development of Germany that famously left nuclear behind you see that:

https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/co2-emissions-and-gdp-per-capita

So how does this prove anything about nuclear? Not that I’m contra nuclear energy in general. Just wondering.
I am entirely in favor of nuclear power but pretending it's tied to GDP growth is weird.  

Their CO2 output reducing did not increase their GDP.  The GDP per capita of France and UK were about the same in the 80s are are still about the same.  Both are behind Germany in GDP per capita and Germany doesn't have nuclear.  

GDP growth is not an indicator of how well they are fighting climate change.  It is an indicator of economic growth.
It’s politically tricky as the financial / ownership base for nuclear is less private than fossil fuels or even renewables, hence there is little political support at the higher levels. 

So it has to be state backed, which requires political unity over multiple political cycles.
The most DUH statement I've ever seen, yet people think it's the devil.
Was it compared with what?
What a fantastic title. How do you know that this was the fastest way? Or the most efficient? Or a way to fight climate change at all? 

This chart proves nothing of that. It simple shows that France GDP has a steady grow since the end of WWII and that CO2 per capita is sinking since 1970. Nothing more. Has it something to do with NPPs? Maybe. But we can´t say anything about it because of this graphic. 

And we absolutely can\`t compare the decision to build NPPs to other (never defined) decisions.
https://preview.redd.it/em8bh6g82m5d1.jpeg?width=1052&format=pjpg&auto=webp&s=a47b7236c7b0914b4f6a46f53a451860108b94ab

Nuclear was a very promising technology to overcome dependence on fossil fuels, but falls short in comparison to renewables. Not only is it more expensive, France has had a lot of struggles maintaining and cooling their plants in the last years. Still highly fascinating from a technical standpoint
You are seeing a correlation and immediatly giving nuclear the responsibility without further investigation. This is not r/interestingasfuck this is r/nuclearpropaganda.
In other news, water, wets? More at 6
China is currently building 21 nuclear power plants. India is building another 8.
Can someone show global average vs co2 for comparison.
This has been common knowledge for decades among people who care about learnin’ good.
good job france
We solved Climate Change in the 60s. Fear and lobbying has been holding us back from ridding our reliance on fossil fuels. Causing wars and devastation along the way.
Well, you can‘t fight climate change with nuclear power if the summers get so hot you have to switch off you nuclear power plants because the rivers dried up and you have not enough cooling water left.*

* as seen repeatedly in the last 6 years
Needs to be more widespread. Irrational fear is holding back much needed progress.
 I want more nuclear power plants in the us
TIL nuclear power is mostly bad because it's scary.
Let's ignore that most of the drop in co2 is due to them exporting the emissions to poorer countries.
Cue the hordes of Nuclear Expert Redditors explaining how this is a BadThing™️
Most European countries decoupled their emissions from GDP. Maybe nuclear is a part but it's definitely not the whole answer.
In the 1970s nuclear energy was the way to go. Today there are better technologies. And they are not more expensive if you look on all the hidden costs of nuclear energy.

This graph shows in a great way that a technology switch doesn´t mean an economic decline like many people say.
Does everyone forget they exploit their “colonies” in Africa?
Anyone who is an advocate for climate change but is also anti-nuclear power is a piece of shit.
Sure. France was able to switch to nuclear power and sold electricity to other European countries because they were buying uranium from Niger (pronounced Nee-jare). Guess for how much? $0.80 per kilogram. The same grade uranium was being bought for $200 per kilogram from Canada. Oh well, Niger has kicked them out of their country. No more cheap uranium for you! Bye. Search for "France Niger" on YT to watch more analysis.

Check out the year on the map where both lines diverge. It corresponds to when Niger got their independence but It was only independence on paper. France made them sign agreements which pretty much kept their colonial authority.
And yet it was not the reason at all why France switched for nuclear energy to begin with, but because they didn't have their own access to petrol or gas.  
Thanks to ecolobbyists and Germany, we closed some reactors, a clean controllable and "compact" energy, to switch to solar and wind energy to have electricity when there is wind (less than 25% of the time) and when there is sun (less than 50% of the time) ; thankfully we just have to burn some coal and gas to make up the difference.
https://preview.redd.it/8m7awiddhm5d1.jpeg?width=228&format=pjpg&auto=webp&s=54acce5dc46c7061a580eafdf8ce148852e35fc1
URANIUM FEEEVER HAS GOTTEN ME DOWN 🔥🔥🔥
But they ain't got no F-150s!
[https://parti-equinoxe.fr/](https://parti-equinoxe.fr/)
Rip chad
Yeah, if you created an industry almost 50 years ago.
Cries in nuclear free New Zealand...
Na, whatever they did in 1939 turned out well for emissions
I’m waiting for German greens to come in here and tell us how all numbers are a lie.
Not really.

https://www.euractiv.com/section/electricity/news/electricity-exporter-for-42-years-france-became-a-net-importer-in-2022/

While nuclear energy is indeed clean and can be made safe, the problem is operating modern and safe reactors nowadays is extremely expensive. This is why nuclear energy is declining worldwide. 

https://www.ft.com/content/65e40e41-1a6c-4bc6-b109-610f5de82c09

Or just look at the Flamanville 3 debacle in France. 

https://www.reuters.com/business/energy/edf-announces-new-delay-higher-costs-flamanville-3-reactor-2022-01-12/

The problem is that pumping huge amounts of money into what seems to be a technological dead end means lower investments in technology that really works, i.e. renewables.
Why don't more countries switch to thorium powered nuclear reactors, they appear to be much safer than uranium.
Isn't it because it is very expensive? Solar and wind are cheaper solutions for $/(MW/h). 
At least this is the explanation given in politics in The Netherlands. Correct me if I'm wrong
Hopefully we get fusion so no stigma
Thorium salt reactors would make it even better
Where does France get rid of the waste?
People seem to think we're past the need for nuclear because renewables are coming on strong, but renewables, even with their incredible growth, aren't even offsetting the new demand for energy we get every year, let alone cutting into the existing level of demand. When it comes to saving the fucking biosphere, we shouldn't be picking one solution to the problem, we should be throwing all solutions at the problem. Renewables and nuclear use different infrastructure to build them and they work well together (having 24/7 baseload power makes grid management FAR easier than a grid dominated by intermittent renewables). We should be building as much nuclear as we can.
fun fact that hydroelectric has killed more people an caused more property damage then every single nuclear incident combined by a MASSIVE margin and if you build your reactors in places that are pretty meh on natrual disasters (arizona an similar) they can just happily pump out power without incident
Common knowledge, but here in the US we like to clear cut thousands of acres of forest, grade said deforested land and put solar panels on it and call it all green… it’s a damn joke.  Solar on houses/buildings makes sense to me though.

Solar fields:  Consider the following factors: the carbon sequestration previously done by the trees you're cutting down, the fuel consumed in clear-cutting and grading the land, the fuel used to transport the solar panels to the newly cleared property, the fuel required to mine materials for the panels, the fuel/energy used to construct the building where the panels are manufactured, and the fuel/energy consumed in making and packaging the panels. Given all these, how can solar be considered environmentally friendly?

EV’s are even worse, when you really dig down deep, the dollar is the only green thing being produced here.
It's really a shame that Chernobyl gave so many people mass hysteria when it comes to nuclear energy. Any type of energy hast the potential to be extremely dangerous if you make huge errors in procedure, don't take safety pre-cautions, and then proceed to lie about how bad the disaster is during a crisis situation. Chernobyl was so bad because of the Soviet Union's negligence and incompetence, not nuclear energy itself.
This is why nobody trusts the climate activists. They are usual radical liberal activist types who fearmonger nuclear, when in fact nuclear would be the best way to reduce co2 emissions.
And yet places like Germany espouse clean energy the hardest, while using Coal because they’re anti-Nuclear energy
Literally the best energy source humans have currently. Yes better than solar. Instead of being so scared of a disaster, I'm sure If they used those stupid brains they could come up with several safety features, new ones on top of that. I'm heavily against taking down nuclear power plants tbh
The state company for nuclear energy had to be kept alive with public money, since it was several tens of billions of euros in debt and not able to refinance.

Nuclear energy is expensive, by far more than renewables.
How is GDP correlated to CO2 output?

This is just stupid. Like saying there were more pirates in the Caribbean during the 18th century and CO2 levels were lower. So let's have more pirates.
The nuclear waste is a problem of the other generations...  ;-)
Yeah, no kidding.
The problem with nuclear power is that it is a solution to the problem.

I am convinced climate activities don't want a solution, they want control and they want the moral high ground.
Ya it's efficient, but the cooling water ends up back in the ocean.
No shit!  This is what almost all conservatives in the US are saying.  But noooooo has to be batteries and solar panels made in China.
What do they do with their waste bury it in the ground? Send it to China for recycling?
Not to bash on nuclear but the reason I think people are hesitant on it is because when a coal plant burns down, or is destroyed by hostils, the local area is destroyed. When nuclear plants suffer the same fate, the region if not the world is affected
So after 20 years are we allowed to say left wing was wrong?

Imagine what we can say in 20 years again where they was wrong too.
Stop the Reddit Boner for nuclear energy already. 😡
The crazy one to me is Germanys stance on nuclear. I thought of all the countries they would be on board.
You didn't see graphite. 

YOU DIDN'T! BECAUSE IT'S NOT THERE!
they are back to churning out what they did in the freaking 1920s? that's insane.
No shit, carbon taxes don't work. Look at Canada compared to US even. US has no "carbon tax" and their emissions have been steadily dropping. Canada has a "carbon tax" and it's exploding with corruption and emissions lol.
Obviously
Amazing. GO FRANCE!!!
I'm all for it. Just don't place it in my backyard.
What a shocker.
Yeah but where do we store the waste? 
Now just convince every hippie about the fact.
Fukushima really set back the nuclear energy industry.
https://preview.redd.it/91drwh0scp5d1.jpeg?width=1125&format=pjpg&auto=webp&s=85b861867d1803ceb29225d03839baa9f56917b1
Can we please be realistic ?

Electricity isn't our only energy, if we look at all our energy consumption nuclear is at 36.5% in 2022 (I know it was a bad year for our nuclear production as a lot of reactors were under maintenance or inspection)
Our electricity is low carbon but our heating, our transport or our remaining industry aren't. We still rely on petrol or gaz for those.

So what's the point of this chart ? It shows that we have relocated our industry abroad and we don't count CO2 imports.
The real problem is that France has little to no Uranium reserves naturally. France gets their Uranium from a couple mines in one or two African countries. These same countries are former French colonies that are experiencing economic hardship because of how the French have manipulated their currencies.  

So sure France may have been able to fight climate change but it’s at the expense of an entire African country. Furthermore Russian forces and Russian aligned PMCs are working in these countries to try and stop the French from accessing these Uranium reserves. This is ramping up more hardship and pressures for civilians caught in the conflicts.
Not! What the switch means is that multinational corporation will continue to control energy production and therefore set the price. Solar power decentralizes and DEMOCRATIZES energy production. Cut the cord produce your own energy for your e-vehicle.
[deleted]
Nuclear power is the cleanest form of energy. Also the most expensive though.
Then why are the green Eco-Goblins so opposed to nuclear?
Bullshit.
out of context it sounds like a no brainer, but it is entirely up to the national situation. they already had the skills and experience.    As a direct comparison they are using this BS to get nuclear power in Australia... zero storage, zero experience (essentially) and zero infrastructure.   Certain politicians say it can all be done very quickly... while build times seem to be 20 years when you already have everything in place.    So yeah.. maybe great for some countries.. not so great for others.    One can also argue this model is being pushed because it is centralized and controlled by very few people with  prohibitive entry price. Renewables are decentralised..... they will no longer have a captive market and can set prices.
To: Sherlock
From: Everyone
Subject: No shit.
Well, you see, people in general are stupid and fossil fuel execs are greedy fucks all too happy to feed fear to the stupid people...
It’s almost like not enslaving yourself to the toxic liquids and gases that pollute our planet toxic is a fucking no brainer unless you’re in the business of selling such things then you’d probably be willing to do anything to force everyone to stay addicted.
Waaaaaa nuclear power scary four legs three eyes, let's make the atmosphere choke us to death with fossil fuels instead

Nuclear power on top
More money means less Carbon Dioxide... Noted!!!
Meanwhile climate activists: "Noo, Nuclear power is bad... *crying*"
Creating toxic waste without being able to store it, for energy more expensive then that of renewal energy with plants that are in terrible conditions threatening not just france but it's bordering countries as well. Seriously, one could think 90% of reddit users are paid by the energy lobby, just that even energy companies don't want to build these plants because they are too expensive and uneconomical.
Spain’s CO2 emissions per capita are smaller than France's with a higher HDI and replacing nuclear with renewables. It is just an example but just to highlight that nuclear is definitely not the only option.
Wow! Who would have thought? 

The total amount of nuclear waste that has ever been doesn't even compare to the amount of waste that oil causes in one day.
The second would be to end manufacturing ties with countries that don't have any emission standards, like China and India!
And Germany is doing the reverse. Bunch of idiots.
Until theres a widespread natural disaster and a huge swath of land becomes uninhabitable for thousands of years. Just like fukushima. Harnessing the power of the sun is a dangerous game. Its clean energy only until its not.
Love it when people slap on a graph and make up any story they want about it.
Germany in shambles.

Nuclear energy is the best large scale, low environmental impact energy we have currently. Just don't build them on fault lines or other areas that significant natural disasters and have a lot of redundant and overengineered safeties
Everybody point at Germany and laugh at the fool.