


Manage your account

An Australian mining company made headlines when it placed a $400 million order for over 100 new all-electric mining equipment assets from a Chinese manufacturer, as reported by Electrek.
Fortescue, an Australian mining company, purchased $400 million of mining equipment from Xuzhou Construction Machinery Group, the largest single equipment export deal in the Chinese company's history. The contract will bring electric mining equipment, including electric wheel loaders, electric dozers, and electric semitrucks, to Fortescue's operations within the next five years.
"We're moving rapidly to decarbonize our Pilbara iron ore operations and eliminate our Scope 1 and 2 terrestrial emissions by 2030," explained Fortescue Chief Executive Officer Dino Otranto. "To achieve this target, we will need to swap out hundreds of pieces of diesel mining equipment at the end of their life with zero emissions alternatives. As the global mining industry continues to evolve, we're proud to be at the forefront of driving innovation in value adding green technology and showing the world that industry can decarbonize."
If you were going to purchase an EV which of these factors would be most important to you?
   Good driving range   
   Affordable sticker price   
   High-tech safety features   
   Cheap maintenance costs   
Click your choice to see results and speak your mind.
The mining industry, which brings in over $845 billion annually, is becoming even more important. There is a higher demand for nickel, lithium, and phosphates for electric vehicles and other electric items. Fortescue's mine also specializes in iron ore for steel.
Mining, however, can create land and air pollution and overuse of water. While mining for electric vehicles is less intrusive than mining for diesel and traditional gas-powered vehicles, using more electric equipment for mining can further reduce land and air pollution.
Other companies are moving to electric mining equipment, including Komatsu's new fleet and Liebherr, which has worked with Fortescue to use self-driving electric haul trucks.
"Every new use of electric construction equipment is a win," shared one commenter.
"The renewable and sustainable energy economy is the largest opportunity for business in our lifetime," another commenter wrote.
"This company is putting pretty much every other mining company to shame," someone else said. "Real Net Zero should be the target for every mining company."
Join our free newsletter for good news and useful tips, and don't miss this cool list of easy ways to help yourself while helping the planet.

A shark bit the hands off a woman along the shore of a Caribbean beach while she was trying to take a picture with it.
Worker who questioned Jamie Dimon’s RTO mandate says he was fired—then told he could keep his job—after testy town hall exchange
One expert says these so-called "super pigs" — wild boars that were deliberately bred with domestic pigs – are an "ecological trainwreck."
Construction of former President Obama's long-awaited library and museum in Chicago began with ambitious plans for diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) but is now plagued by huge cost overruns, delays and a $40 million racially charged lawsuit filed by a minority contractor.
"This type of sea snake can be more venomous than a cobra and potentially lethal to humans."
The research team collected sand at a depth of 5 centimeters from an area of 2,500 square centimeters.
The world needs more people like this!
Florida biologists captured the heaviest panther ever recorded in the state as part of a research program into the endangered animal's movements.
Elon Musk's antics have gotten so out of control that even his flunkies at Tesla are starting to get worried. According to a report from The Washington Post, there's growing sentiment among employees that Musk — already involved in multiple enterprises before his foray into politics — has become "disengaged" from the automaker as he serves as President Donald Trump's right hand man, leading the so-called Department of Government Efficiency. The employees range from rank and file to senior manage
There's once again potential for more snow in the St. Louis region, both before this weekend ends and as the new workweek unfolds.
"This study updates how we understand [ozone] pollution."
It is great news for residents.
“Tesla is really crushing it.”
"It can filter water nearly 10 times faster than classic commercial nanofiltration membranes."
Another 5 to 10 inches of snow is coming to Metro Detroit. Here's the timing and how much you can expect outside your door.
We have crews spread out throughout the metro assessing the damage caused by the storms.
"Our ambition is to advance this technology to the next phase of commercialization."
An earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 3.5, the third above 3.0 in Southern California in the last several hours, struck the Inland Empire on Saturday afternoon. According to the U.S. Geological Survey, the quake struck at 2:16 p.m. with an epicenter 11 miles south of Idyllwild, near Hemet. The quake marked the third in […]
"The beauty of the batteries is that if there’s energy in them, they can be used for unexpected needs."
The deadline for federal workers to accept OPM's buyout offer was on Feb. 6, but terms of resignation are different for IRS workers during tax season.
After receiving several inches of rain Saturday, Clarksville's government released a statement discussing flash floods in the city and the surrounding areas.
Elevate Florida presents a new way so that homeowners pay nothing to flood-proof their houses. The program is the first of its kind in the country.
The line of storms that spurned at least two confirmed tornadoes have moved out.
Snow, ice and high winds are all threats from this weekend winter storm. Here's our latest forecast, including the latest National Weather Service alerts.
Lexus again tops the ranks of J.D. Power’s newest vehicle dependability survey, but owners overall are making more complaints as vehicles get more and more complex.
Winter's grip is only going to get firmer. Record lows and a winter storm are on the horizon. Here's our latest outlook.
The weather has not been kind to us over the last week. Sadly, it will only be getting worse. Today is our one and only chance to experience seasonal-average temperatures. The rug gets pulled out from under us later tonight, with arctic air returning. Highs today will climb into the 40s under grey skies with […]
At least three people, including a child, have been killed after a catastrophic and historic flooding event unfolded across portions of four states over the weekend as a powerful storm system produced several threats across the eastern half of the U.S.
This is so sweet, we can't take it!
The earthquake happened around 10:23 p.m. MT, nearly 33 miles northwest of Toyah, Texas, about 190 miles from El Paso.
A new winter storm is on the horizon, and it could bring heavy snow and ice to the Central U.S. before potentially taking aim at the Northeast. Here's what you need to know.
Tariffs will hit the tech complex.
Hanna Hickman, a now-terminated worker for the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, told ABC News the last four days have been a roller coaster.  "It's scary," said Hickman, who was fired last Tuesday.  Hickman was senior litigation counsel for the Division of Enforcement at the CFPB in Washington, D.C. She is one of thousands of mostly new employees known as probationary workers laid off this week across the federal government.
Does it make economic and ecological sense to remove Indian River Lagoon causeways? Brevard wants a federal study of removing State Road 528 causeway.
An unforgiving atmospheric river passed through San Diego County this week, causing the San Diego River to overflow with several feet of water.
Almost half of retirees struggled in the transition to retirement
UPDATE: 7:25 AM: The National Weather Service reports trees were reported down along Highway 225 south of Interstate 65. MOBILE, Ala. (WKRG) — Storm damage is being reported around the News 5 area. No tornadoes touched down but strong winds and rain brought down trees and powerlines in several places. In Mobile a tree fell […]
They searched for a readily available material that had a high supply of hydrocarbons and found what they needed.
Many are stuck between a rock and a hard place.
St. Paul police arrested a man they believe stole a bronze statue of the famous author, F. Scott Fitzgerald, after a scrapyard reported the suspect tried selling parts of the statue, which was cut into pieces.
The world's largest whiskey market will lower its levies from 150 percent to 100 percent.
The latest counts from the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, or FWC, show background to moderate levels along the Lee and Collier coastlines.
The NWS is collecting snowfall data from the winter weather system that impacted southeast Wisconsin from Friday, Feb. 14 into Saturday, Feb. 15.
That SLO county spot had the most rain recorded across the Central Coast and Southern California regions, the National Weather Service said.
WME Executive Ari Emanuel confirmed he fired Justin Baldoni from the agency amid the It Ends With Us drama while sharing his opinion on Blake Lively and Ryan Reynolds.
Upward of 3 inches of snow fell in some parts of Indiana, according to reports from the National Weather Service.
The U.S. government has given the Taiwanese semiconductor manufacturer TSMC three proposals to keep producing with the country, which brought up several challenges.
The latest arctic blast will move into the northern Rockies and northern Plains Saturday and spread to the central and eastern U.S. through much of next week.
A powerful winter storm with heavy snow is headed to areas in the Midwest and Northeast. Meanwhile, the South is preparing for heavy rain and the potential for severe tornadoes. NBC’s Angie Lassman tracks the forecast.
Justin Baldoni’s former agency is calling for him to "just stop" pursuing his legal battle with Blake Lively.