


Manage your account

A new study suggests that air pollution can affect the fertility rates of all people, not just mothers or others who can bear children.
The Guardian reported on a study published in November that showed exposure to common air pollutants can hinder egg, sperm, and embryo development.
The study included 500 egg donors and 915 male recipient partners. It found that all donors who were around higher levels of organic carbon and other particulate matter experienced lower rates of fertilization and egg survival.
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency defines particulate matter as "a mixture of solid particles and liquid droplets found in the air." Its size and chemical composition vary, but many sources can emit them, including cars, trucks, fires, construction sites, and power plants.
Research about fertility has previously ignored potential harm to male fertility.
"We don't usually think about the male partners' exposures in the preconception window, but we and others are increasingly showing that male exposures are important, both in terms of fertility, and potentially later in child health outcomes," said Emory University researcher Audrey Gaskins, the study's lead author.
Though the study defined test subjects as female or male, it still proves that higher levels of pollution can affect anyone's fertility rate.
And this isn't the only connection between air pollution and health issues. Other studies have highlighted the link between high exposure to air pollution and conditions such as eczema and lung disease.
The EPA lowered its threshold for acceptable amounts of particulate matter in February.
Do you worry about air pollution in your town?
   All the time   
   Often   
   Only sometimes   
   Never   
Click your choice to see results and speak your mind.
You may be able to get a tax credit via the Inflation Reduction Act to reduce air leaks in your home, which can also decrease the amount of outside pollution in your home.
Further protect your health by using air purifiers. If you're worried about the cost, you can try making your own Corsi-Rosenthal box, which may be up to 50% cheaper than a commercial air purifier.
If you need to go outside on days when air pollution is high, scarves and cloth masks will not protect you from particulate matter. IQAir recommends wearing a KN95 or N95 mask or better with a good seal.
Join our free newsletter for easy tips to save more and waste less, and don't miss this cool list of easy ways to help yourself while helping the planet.
A shark bit the hands off a woman along the shore of a Caribbean beach while she was trying to take a picture with it.
An earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 3.5 rattled the L.A. metropolitan area early Saturday. According to the U.S. Geological Survey, the quake struck at 6:30 a.m. The epicenter was said to be 11 kilometers (about 6.8 miles), at a depth of 14.4 kilometers (about 8.7 miles). There were no immediate reports of damage or injuries. Saturday morning’s […]
One expert says these so-called "super pigs" — wild boars that were deliberately bred with domestic pigs – are an "ecological trainwreck."
Anti-Theft Aktion Amid a spate of vandalism at Supercharger stations, Tesla appears to be employing countermeasures to head off the theft of its valuable copper charging cables. For years now, opportunists have targeted electric vehicle charging stations for the copper wiring that powers them. With Tesla Supercharger stations lacking physical security guards, thieves have had little stopping them from stealing the metal worth up to $5.20 per pound — until now. In a post on X, Tesla charging czar
"This type of sea snake can be more venomous than a cobra and potentially lethal to humans."
The world needs more people like this!
There's once again potential for more snow in the St. Louis region, both before this weekend ends and as the new workweek unfolds.
Florida biologists captured the heaviest panther ever recorded in the state as part of a research program into the endangered animal's movements.
Harmful algae bloom off south-west coast blamed for deaths of marine life and poses threat to beaches
Elon Musk's antics have gotten so out of control that even his flunkies at Tesla are starting to get worried. According to a report from The Washington Post, there's growing sentiment among employees that Musk — already involved in multiple enterprises before his foray into politics — has become "disengaged" from the automaker as he serves as President Donald Trump's right hand man, leading the so-called Department of Government Efficiency. The employees range from rank and file to senior manage
It is great news for residents.
Another 5 to 10 inches of snow is coming to Metro Detroit. Here's the timing and how much you can expect outside your door.
“Tesla is really crushing it.”
"It can filter water nearly 10 times faster than classic commercial nanofiltration membranes."
The "choco-holic" opossum turned out to also be dealing with lead toxicity, according to those who treated her
While just a coincidence in timing coming on the heels of the storm, the magnitude 3.7 quake struck just before midnight and was centered just 7 miles northwest of Malibu, according to the U.S. Geological Survey.
"Our ambition is to advance this technology to the next phase of commercialization."
After receiving several inches of rain Saturday, Clarksville's government released a statement discussing flash floods in the city and the surrounding areas.
Elevate Florida presents a new way so that homeowners pay nothing to flood-proof their houses. The program is the first of its kind in the country.
The line of storms that spurned at least two confirmed tornadoes have moved out.
Snow, ice and high winds are all threats from this weekend winter storm. Here's our latest forecast, including the latest National Weather Service alerts.
Winter's grip is only going to get firmer. Record lows and a winter storm are on the horizon. Here's our latest outlook.
Much of the Big Bend, including Leon County, is under a tornado watch this morning as a severe storm system sweeps across the area.
The weather has not been kind to us over the last week. Sadly, it will only be getting worse. Today is our one and only chance to experience seasonal-average temperatures. The rug gets pulled out from under us later tonight, with arctic air returning. Highs today will climb into the 40s under grey skies with […]
At least three people, including a child, have been killed after a catastrophic and historic flooding event unfolded across portions of four states over the weekend as a powerful storm system produced several threats across the eastern half of the U.S.
The earthquake happened around 10:23 p.m. MT, nearly 33 miles northwest of Toyah, Texas, about 190 miles from El Paso.
A new winter storm is on the horizon, and it could bring heavy snow and ice to the Central U.S. before potentially taking aim at the Northeast. Here's what you need to know.
At 14 degrees, the ion spread rate remained at 84% of what it was at 77 degrees.
UPDATE: 7:25 AM: The National Weather Service reports trees were reported down along Highway 225 south of Interstate 65. MOBILE, Ala. (WKRG) — Storm damage is being reported around the News 5 area. No tornadoes touched down but strong winds and rain brought down trees and powerlines in several places. In Mobile a tree fell […]
"If it's possible, let them compensate us and relocate us because it's no longer appealing."
From Bowling Green to Hazard, community leaders and law enforcement officials have posted photos of road conditions and flood damage on social media alongside warnings to residents statewide to avoid travel if possible.
With the cost of everything increasing due to stubborn inflation figures, finding cheaper alternatives for necessities like groceries is more important than ever. That's why we'll look at groceries...
The NWS is collecting snowfall data from the winter weather system that impacted southeast Wisconsin from Friday, Feb. 14 into Saturday, Feb. 15.
At least two people have died and more than 10 million were under flood warnings or flash flood emergencies from Ohio to Mississippi early Sunday, as a powerful storm races across the eastern US.
The latest counts from the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, or FWC, show background to moderate levels along the Lee and Collier coastlines.
A firefighter and inspector with the Los Angeles Fire Department is expected to be OK after making a harrowing escape when his SUV was swept away in a debris flow and plunged roughly 30 feet into the Pacific Ocean Thursday evening. “Here’s something that I’ve never really seen before. A Fire Department SUV sitting in […]
The worst of the rainfall in the first atmospheric river to hit San Diego this year has passed, but the impacts will still be felt for the next few days at the region's beaches.
The latest arctic blast will move into the northern Rockies and northern Plains Saturday and spread to the central and eastern U.S. through much of next week.
Prepare to stay home Sunday as 25-35+ cm of snow blankets much of southern Ontario. Whiteout conditions are possible at times
As the greater Portland metro area region thaws out from two rounds of winter weather for the past two days, some people who were forced to abandon their cars stuck in snow overnight are attempting to salvage their vehicles.
It may be Valentine’s Day, but New England is not feeling the love from Mother Nature this weekend as a winter storm threatens to bring snowy and icy conditions across the region.
A pair of threats played out across the South this weekend. Here's what you need to know.
Red tide is caused by a harmful algae bloom. It can bring respiratory problems and even fish kills in high concentrations.
The San Juan Creek in California was flowing uncontrollably on Friday after an atmospheric rain that hit Southern California on Thursday.
After a week heavy water releases through Shasta Dam, Lake Shasta is still more full than usual. Here's how much rain water the lake received.
All of Michigan is expected to see accumulating snow Friday into Saturday, according to the National Weather Service.
Security cameras captured the moment a tornado tore through Oxnard on Thursday afternoon, damaging roofs and carports as residents took shelter inside their homes. Emergency calls from the Ocean-Aire Mobile Home Community and neighboring Country Club Mobile Estates recorded the panic as the storm struck. About a dozen homes and structures sustained severe damage, including […]
The temptation to see marine animals up close plagues humans all over the world.
(Bloomberg) -- The Trump administration has approved a Texas port capable of shipping 1 million barrels of oil a day proposed by Sentinel Midstream LLC.Most Read from BloombergProgressive Portland Plots a ComebackWhy American Mobility Ground to a HaltA Filmmaker’s Surreal Journey Into His Own Private WinnipegHow to Build a Neurodiverse CitySpaceX Bid to Turn Texas Starbase Into City Is Set for Vote in MayThe project, first proposed in 2019 and known as the Texas GulfLink Deepwater Port, had been
The National Weather Service says severe weather could hit Bay County over the weekend. Here's a look at the weather on Feb. 14, 2025.