


Manage your account

Flies might not come to mind when you think of threatened species in need of protection, but research has proved that they are a vital part of our ecosystems.
It may seem like there are plenty of flies buzzing around everywhere, but they're actually facing risks from rising global temperatures, according to a report from Penn State.
In tests done by the researchers, flies were less tolerant to high temperatures than bees. Bees can adapt to more habitats and sustain hotter tropical living conditions, and flies are more vulnerable to the changing and warming climate.
Both insects are crucial pollinators that contribute to the diversity, health, and reproduction of wild plants and agricultural crops.
"It's time we gave flies some more recognition [for] their role as pollinators," said Margarita López-Uribe, lead author on the study and professor at Penn State. "Flies have a significant role, but they don't get as much attention — and they are vulnerable in all the same ways that bees are."
Without pollinators, much of the global food supply would collapse. About 75% of all flowering plants and 35% of all food crops depend on animal pollinators to reproduce, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
"In alpine and subarctic environments, flies are the primary pollinator," López-Uribe said. "This study shows us that we have entire regions that could lose their primary pollinator as the climate warms, which could be catastrophic for those ecosystems."
Temperature isn't the only thing affecting pollination. Pollution caused by humans throughout the day and night is also negatively impacting the process. Air pollution is so bad that it's preventing moths from being able to pick up the scent of wildflowers.
There are government programs in place to protect pollinators, though many of them are focused on the most threatened species, like bees and bats.
Should the government be paying people to hunt invasive species?
   Definitely   
   Depends on the animal   
   No way   
   Just let people do it for free   
Click your choice to see results and speak your mind.
"In all, there are over 100 crops grown in the United States that depend on pollination," the USDA said. "USDA supports the critical role pollinators play in agriculture through research and data collections, diagnostic services and pollinator health monitoring, pollinator habitat enhancement programs, and pollinator health grants."
Homeowners can do their part to encourage pollination by installing native plants that are welcoming to local pollinators and avoiding harmful pesticides in their gardens.
Join our free newsletter for good news and useful tips, and don't miss this cool list of easy ways to help yourself while helping the planet.
Researchers have discovered an "unexpected" accumulation of the radioactive isotope beryllium-10, deep underneath the surface of the Pacific Ocean. As detailed in a paper published in the journal Nature Communications, the international team of scientists believes that the "anomaly" dates back to shifts in ocean currents or cosmic rays interacting with the Earth's atmosphere approximately ten million years ago. Beryllium-10 is known to be continuously produced by cosmic particles interacting wit
"Our findings ... emphasize the importance of targeted local management actions."
NASA astronauts pushed back during an interview on President Trump’s claim last month that former President Biden and his administration abandoned them on the International Space Station (ISS). Astronauts Sunita Williams and Butch Wilmore were asked Thursday night on CNN if they feel abandoned, an assertion they refuted. “We don’t feel abandoned. We don’t feel…
"This study is a testament to the unexpected connections between plant biology and microbiology."
Research such as this is vital in preparing the world to be resilient to a changing climate.
Astronomers have detected a relatively close exoplanet orbiting in the habitable zone of its star, where temperatures are just right to support liquid water on the surface. As detailed in a new study published in the journal Astronomy & Astrophysics, the planet, dubbed HD 20794 d, is suspected to be what's referred to as a super-Earth, possessing six times the mass of our world. Promisingly, it orbits a star much like our own, and resides just twenty light years away. That makes it one of the cl
Time in our lived reality is unidirectional, but a study finds quantum world can bend time and make it go in opposite ways.
They made the discovery accidentally during routine West Nile virus monitoring.
This week, see what makes loggerhead sea turtles “dance,” track a cosmic “ghost particle,” uncover an ancient basilica, and more.
A SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket launched for the 26th time this morning (Feb. 15), setting a new reuse record for the company.
NASA astronauts Sunita Williams and Barry Wilmore rejected claims by President Donald Trump and Department of Government Efficiency Director Elon Musk that the Biden administration had “virtually abandoned” them in space. Wilmore and Williams, who have been in space for around eight months, told CNN’s Anderson Cooper in a Thursday interview that they have felt supported and prepared since their return home was delayed by issues with the aircraft. “We don’t feel abandoned. We don’t feel stuck. We
It is not unusual to see a Saturn V launch while viewing a film at Space Center Houston. Now, with "The Moonwalkers: A Journey with Tom Hanks," that spectacle stretches beyond the center's screen.
On February 15, 2013, a small asteroid exploded over the city of Chelyabinsk, Russia. The shock wave from this explosion damaged thousands of buildings, and almost 1,500 people were injured by broken glass and other debris. The explosion was more powerful than a nuclear bomb, and it was so bright that it briefly outshone the sun! No one saw this giant space rock coming. At 60 feet in diameter, it was the largest thing to fall from space in more than 100 years. It entered Earth's atmosphere traveling more than 60 times the speed of sound and exploded into countless pieces. The biggest fragments were later recovered in Lake Chebarkul.
NASA astronauts Suni Williams and Butch Wilmore say they aren't stranded aboard the space station. They'll be happy to come home but sad when their spaceflight journey comes to an end.
Elon Musk's internet satellites have been a game changer for people in rural areas, but scientists are alarmed that plans to launch thousands more will be perilous for our skies.
Using an amateur radio setup, 10 children chatted with astronaut Donald Pettit about life on the International Space Station.
"I realized he was dead serious. Elon Musk doesn't just dream, he makes things happen," said entrepreneur and academic Vivek Wadhwa.
William Ray Lucas, who led the NASA facility that shouldered much of the blame for the 1986 explosion of the space shuttle Challenger, has died. Lucas was 102.
The Royal Society scientific academy said it would hold a meeting to discuss principles around the public pronouncements and behaviours of its fellows after thousands of scientists expressed their concerns over Elon Musk's continued membership.  Britain's Royal Society began in 1660 and is the oldest national scientific academy.  Its fellows have included Isaac Newton, Charles Darwin, Albert Einstein and Stephen Hawking.
Earth has a variety of islands and bodies of water that resemble a heart. ESA takes you on a tour. Credit: ESA
Saturday Night Live is celebrating 50 years and got together a group of stars to commemorate the milestone. Tom Hanks and Rita Wilson were among the celebrities who attended SNL50: The Homecoming Concert and participated in a funny bit. During the concert special, host Jimmy Fallon clarified that the three-hour show would only present musical …
Travelers disembarking a budget airline got more than they bargained for.
While Blake Lively has kept a low profile, her co-star Anna Kendrick isn’t shying away from the cameras, even amid all the Simple Favor drama rumors. In fact, she just made a rare red carpet outing, and her daring number turned every single head! In case you missed it, on Feb 15, the Alice, Darling …
President Donald Trump's plans to slash the federal workforce are underway. BI spoke to four federal workers who voted for Trump on their thoughts.
"I think Jay-Z and Kendrick Lamar should both send Colin Kaepernick a Bundt cake and a six-pack of beer," insisted the rapper.
Hundreds of people have been charged with online “speech crimes” amid claims from the Trump administration that civil liberties are under threat in Britain.
An earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 3.5 rattled the L.A. metropolitan area early Saturday. According to the U.S. Geological Survey, the quake struck at 6:30 a.m. The epicenter was said to be 11 kilometers (about 6.8 miles), at a depth of 14.4 kilometers (about 8.7 miles). There were no immediate reports of damage or injuries. Saturday morning’s […]
President Donald Trump's newly installed attorney general, Pam Bondi, has ordered the transfer of a federal inmate to Oklahoma so he can be executed, following through on Trump's sweeping executive order to more actively support the death penalty.  Bondi this week directed the Federal Bureau of Prisons to transfer inmate George John Hanson, 60, so that he can be executed for his role in the kidnapping and killing of a 77-year-old woman in Tulsa in 1999.  “The Department of Justice owes it to the victim and her family — as well as the public — to transfer inmate Hanson so that Oklahoma can carry out this just sentence,” Bondi wrote in a memo to the BOP's director.
LAS VEGAS, N.M. (KRQE) – Las Vegas residents and businesses are being urged to turn off all boilers and water heaters as soon as possible. The city says changing water pressure from the water being transferred to the Luna Reservoir could result in sediment buildup and might cause damage. This is following Friday’s precautionary boiling advisory […]
Ashley St. Clair, a right-wing influencer, Babylon Bee contributor and semi-regular guest on Fox News, took to X late Friday night to reveal that five months ago, she had a child with Elon Musk. She wrote, “Five months ago, I welcomed a new baby into the world. Elon Musk is the father. I have not previously disclosed this to protect our child’s privacy and safety, but in recent days it has become clear that tabloid media intends to do so, regardless of the harm it will cause.” St. Clair ended he
One expert says these so-called "super pigs" — wild boars that were deliberately bred with domestic pigs – are an "ecological trainwreck."
We've all been there with someone.
A Valentine's Day pursuit by San Diego Police Officers ended with a brief standoff with police.
New York State Police charged five people Friday with murder in the killing of a missing man who authorities said died following repeated acts of violence and torture for more than a month by multiple individuals who later discarded his body in a field.  The victim, Sam Nordquist, a 24-year-old transgender man originally from Minnesota, was reported missing on Feb. 9.  Police said he arrived in New York in September and had lost contact with loved ones.
"Broken Rage" is a new crime thriller streaming on Prime Video, and you've never seen a movie quite like this.
Benny, I'm at my wits' end.
While Prince Harry is working at the Invictus Games, his wife Meghan Markle has been doing the cutest baking celebration with their two kids, Prince Archie and Princess Lililbet. In her rare Instagram story from her account @meghan, she showed how she and her two kids made Valentine’s Day treats; but eagle-eyed fans noticed something …
A recent Florida undercover operation led to a massive human trafficking bust, where 29 people were arrested for prostitution and drug charges, and four victims were rescued.
Historic correlations spell trouble for the U.S. economy and stock market during Trump's second term.
Scott Turner Department of Housing and Urban Development secretary, announced a new Department of Government Efficiency Task Force Thursday to “eliminate waste, fraud and abuse" at HUD.
Nobody likes a tough, chewy porkchop! Tenderize your chops and amp up their flavor with this unexpected sweet and bubbly liquid ingredient.
"I'm trans, and some family went out of their way to gloat about their vote, knowing what it meant for me."
Former White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki appeared on Friday’s episode of Jon Stewart’s podcast The Weekly Show to “offer insight into the forces shaping policy, the ways in which the media can effectively inform the public, and the core values that should be guiding the future of the Democratic Party.” One such insight? That the Harris campaign’s decision to utilize Liz Cheney—a former Republican representative for Wyoming and former Vice President Dick Cheney’s daughter—was not the right st
The goal: Cracker-like on the outside and super fluffy on the inside.
‘She speaks for all of us,’ one fan declared.