


Manage your account

Electric vehicles have been shown to be better for the health of the planet and, not unrelatedly, it turns out they are better for the health of individual humans, too. A new study published in the Environmental Research Health journal recently laid out how electric cars replacing gas-powered ones leads to better air quality and a variety of health benefits.
The study focused on New York City, creating mathematical models for what would happen if all of the cars sold in the city were electric. The models showed that the number of health problems that could be avoided in such a scenario was tremendous.
"We find that [...] establishing 100% on-road electric [medium- and heavy-duty vehicles] by 2040 would prevent over $2.4 billion in health damages in 2040," the study's authors wrote.
Do you think a majority of Americans will have EVs in 20 years?
   Absolutely   
   Only in some states   
   No way   
   I'm not sure   
Click your choice to see results and speak your mind.
"Most avoidable health costs would be achieved through reductions in traffic-related air-pollutant-attributable mortality and pediatric asthma ED visits. ... In addition to avoided asthma ED visits, the reduction of [nitrous oxide] concentrations in both scenarios show substantial impacts on the avoidance of new pediatric asthma cases and pediatric asthma exacerbations."
This is not the first study to reach similar conclusions — a recent report from the University of Toronto showed that switching to electric cars throughout the United States could save up to $188 billion in health costs by 2050.
While much is made — and rightfully so — of the planet-overheating effects of the air pollution caused by gas-burning cars, we tend to hear less about the individual human costs of this pollution.
However, it is no less devastating. As both studies explained, air pollution from gas-powered cars directly results in poor air quality, which in turn leads to asthma (particularly pediatric asthma) and other respiratory illnesses.
Luckily for New York City, the focus of the first study, residents in Manhattan already have less air pollution to deal with thanks to the recently implemented congestion pricing, which encourages less polluting travel choices by charging drivers a $9 toll for entering the most congested parts of the borough by car.
Join our free newsletter for weekly updates on the latest innovations improving our lives and shaping our future, and don't miss this cool list of easy ways to help yourself while helping the planet.

A shark bit the hands off a woman along the shore of a Caribbean beach while she was trying to take a picture with it.
Elon Musk's antics have gotten so out of control that even his flunkies at Tesla are starting to get worried. According to a report from The Washington Post, there's growing sentiment among employees that Musk — already involved in multiple enterprises before his foray into politics — has become "disengaged" from the automaker as he serves as President Donald Trump's right hand man, leading the so-called Department of Government Efficiency. The employees range from rank and file to senior manage
The "choco-holic" opossum turned out to also be dealing with lead toxicity, according to those who treated her
Anti-Theft Aktion Amid a spate of vandalism at Supercharger stations, Tesla appears to be employing countermeasures to head off the theft of its valuable copper charging cables. For years now, opportunists have targeted electric vehicle charging stations for the copper wiring that powers them. With Tesla Supercharger stations lacking physical security guards, thieves have had little stopping them from stealing the metal worth up to $5.20 per pound — until now. In a post on X, Tesla charging czar
The pups don’t have names yet and they’re bonding as a family.
"This type of sea snake can be more venomous than a cobra and potentially lethal to humans."
The world needs more people like this!
One thing is certain: The natural world holds plenty of secrets.
Solar panels have gotten so cheap that the plant, born of an old attempt at harnessing the power of the sun, appears to be obsolete.
Harmful algae bloom off south-west coast blamed for deaths of marine life and poses threat to beaches
It is great news for residents.
With the cost of everything increasing due to stubborn inflation figures, finding cheaper alternatives for necessities like groceries is more important than ever. That's why we'll look at groceries...
“Tesla is really crushing it.”
SB54 put an end to polystyrene — which had low recycling rates and high levels of pollution — in California. But the plastic industry may have spooked the governor into silence.
"Our ambition is to advance this technology to the next phase of commercialization."
An electric vehicle caught fire at the Army Beach charging station in the Yukon's Southern Lakes region on Friday.Nobody was injured. A bystander reported that the road was blocked off by fire crews in the early afternoon. The electric sedan was wrapped in police tape and left at the scene. Both the interior and exterior of the car were badly damaged, as well as the charging station. The Marsh Lake fire chief confirmed on social media that an investigation is underway.Calvin Gillings, the car's
"It can filter water nearly 10 times faster than classic commercial nanofiltration membranes."
"The beauty of the batteries is that if there’s energy in them, they can be used for unexpected needs."
"If it's possible, let them compensate us and relocate us because it's no longer appealing."
At 14 degrees, the ion spread rate remained at 84% of what it was at 77 degrees.
We recently published a list of 12 Most Promising Energy Stocks According to Analysts. In this article, we are going to take a look at where Occidental Petroleum Corporation (NYSE:OXY) stands against other most promising energy stocks according to analysts. With the world pivoting towards cleaner energy sources and facing political uncertainties, 2025 can be […]
The latest counts from the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, or FWC, show background to moderate levels along the Lee and Collier coastlines.
(Bloomberg) -- The Trump administration has approved a Texas port capable of shipping 1 million barrels of oil a day proposed by Sentinel Midstream LLC.Most Read from BloombergProgressive Portland Plots a ComebackWhy American Mobility Ground to a HaltA Filmmaker’s Surreal Journey Into His Own Private WinnipegHow to Build a Neurodiverse CitySpaceX Bid to Turn Texas Starbase Into City Is Set for Vote in MayThe project, first proposed in 2019 and known as the Texas GulfLink Deepwater Port, had been
The temptation to see marine animals up close plagues humans all over the world.
After a week heavy water releases through Shasta Dam, Lake Shasta is still more full than usual. Here's how much rain water the lake received.
Editor’s note: Evanston officials said Saturday afternoon that the boil order for Evanston has been lifted. This story has been updated to reflect this claim. SKOKIE, Ill. — Bottled water is being distributed for the third day Sunday morning in the Village of Skokie, where a boil order is expected to remain in effect until […]
A 37-year-old St. Paul man has been charged with the theft.
The Calabasas Landfill in Agoura is one of at least seven Southern California landfills approved to accept waste from the second phase of cleanup from the devastating L.A. fires.
Powerful but irresponsible development interests claim my department is making 'arbitrary' choices to protect groundwater. That's simply not true.
Tar balls are formed when oil coalesces around debris, according to the Florida Department of Environmental Protection.
RANDOLPH COUNTY, N.C. (WGHP) — As part of a 15-year battle with no solution in sight, trash continues to pile up at Randleman Lake. “It’s just ugly,” said Joel Hunt, a neighbor. “It’s a hazard, and we’re tired of seeing it,” said Elbert Canter, who has lived in the area for 75 years. Neighbors who […]
MEMPHIS, Tenn — Governor Bill Lee is putting $20 million behind the Memphis Zoo as a part of his new state budget. “A new home for the animals in the African exhibit at the Memphis Zoo just got a little closer, thanks to Tennessee Gov. Bill Lee and the $20 million he is dedicating to […]
A newly discovered species of frog has been named after Leonardo DiCaprio in recognition of his environmental activism.
Depending how fast an EV charger you need (or want), and your home's existing wiring capacity, you might need some help installing it.
If you have a few beautiful trees scattered across your yard, take these precautions to ensure they're able to survive during the winter.
As their leaves drop in the winter, it's obvious that no two trees are the same. Here's what to know about those with twisted or spiral trunks.
The Department of Natural Resources confirmed highly pathogenic avian influenza, or bird flu, was found in a merganser recovered in early February along the Lake Michigan shoreline in Milwaukee County.
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency on Friday said it has terminated 388 employees hired over the last two years, saying this will align its workforce with President Donald Trump's "energy dominance" policy agenda.  “EPA has terminated 388 probationary employees after a thorough review of agency functions in accordance with President Trump’s executive orders," EPA spokesperson Molly Vaseliou said in a statement.  The announced layoffs came on the same day that thousands of probationary employees throughout the federal workforce received termination notices, affecting everything from nuclear safety to consumer protection to wildfire prevention.
LAS VEGAS, N.M. (KRQE) – The City of Las Vegas said the area is currently under a precautionary boil water order. The city has been dealing with low water pressure because water usage is higher than water production. They are asking for people to conserve water and check for leaks around their properties. The city said […]
We recently published a list of 12 Most Promising Energy Stocks According to Analysts. In this article, we are going to take a look at where Shell plc (NYSE:SHEL) stands against other most promising energy stocks according to analysts. With the world pivoting towards cleaner energy sources and facing political uncertainties, 2025 can be a […]
Polar hair hair oil has natural non-stick qualities that help these animals from getting stuck on ice, says PhD candidate Julian Carolan. (© Kieran McIver / Polar Bears International)Polar bears' greasy fur oil helps them repel ice, researchers say — and it may hold the key to helping humanity ditch harmful forever chemicals.So-called forever chemicals, or PFAs, can be found in common household items like non-stick cookware. They take thousands of years to break down by conventional methods and
MEMPHIS, Tenn. — The mayor of Earle, Arkansas declared a state of emergency Friday after a water pipe collapse resulted in a major leak, leaving residents without water. The leak as of Friday has been fixed, but the town is still under a boil water order. The town turned off all water Friday morning to […]
There are plenty of ways to keep yourself busy during the winter to improve your small ecosystem in the spring. Here's one that won't cost you a dime.
The Great Backyard Bird Count is back. Here's how to help scientists track birds and where to find the best birdwatching opportunities in the area.
Explore the landscaping trend that's adding timeless appeal to outdoor spaces. Learn how to create natural, inviting environments to enhance your yard's beauty.
The East of England is at the forefront of the government's plans for artificial intelligence use.
Businesses and consumers have to come up with creative solutions.
Adrián Simancas, 23, was kayaking off Chilean Patagonia when he found himself inside a whale.
Panda craze has once again gripped Hong Kong as residents compete to name the territory’s first locally-born giant panda cubs who just turned six months old.  The competition to name the twin cubs, born Aug. 15, launched Saturday following a celebratory ceremony attended by Hong Kong leader John Lee and other officials at Ocean Park, the theme park that houses the twins, their parents and two other giant pandas that arrived from mainland China last year.
The population of the national bird is declining partly due to encroachment on wetlands by farmers.