


Manage your account

This common item is responsible for 25% of all microplastic pollution — and it's worse than we thought.
A recent study found high levels of two potentially deadly chemicals in human urine.
The study sampled the urine of 150 people and had "detection frequencies between 60% and 100%" of chemical 6PPD and 6PPD-Q, which are rubber additives commonly used in tires.
The long-term effects of 6PPD in humans hasn't been extensively studied, but what's clear to researchers is that 6PPD's source — tire-based pollution — is a big problem.
It's not easy to be exact, but studies estimate that tires create anywhere from 10-28% of the world's microplastic pollution, according to National Geographic. These particles don't just disappear — they end up in our water, our soil, and our bodies.
As tires degrade, microplastic "tire dust" and toxic chemicals are released into the air.
These tiny particles can easily invade waterways, with well-researched detrimental impacts on marine life. 6PPD specifically is known to quickly kill several types of fish, and the EPA recently suggested screening values to help protect salmon and other fish from tire pollution.
Its toxicity in fish is alarming, and the study's researchers believe "the potential human health risks posed by its long-term exposure require urgent attention."
Currently, tire pollution is lumped in with the rest of microplastics, and many don't realize tires are even a part of the problem. But as more studies reveal the harmful effects of tire pollution on our planet, our wildlife, and our bodies, change becomes more urgent.
Do you worry about air pollution in your town?
   All the time   
   Often   
   Only sometimes   
   Never   
Click your choice to see results and speak your mind.
Henry Obanya, a research student at the University of Portsmouth, said, "We urgently need to classify tyre particles as a unique pollution category. … This approach would drive more focused research that could inform policies specifically designed to mitigate tyre pollution."
Join our free newsletter for good news and useful tips, and don't miss this cool list of easy ways to help yourself while helping the planet.
A shark bit the hands off a woman along the shore of a Caribbean beach while she was trying to take a picture with it.
"This study updates how we understand [ozone] pollution."
An earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 3.5 rattled the L.A. metropolitan area early Saturday. According to the U.S. Geological Survey, the quake struck at 6:30 a.m. The epicenter was said to be 11 kilometers (about 6.8 miles), at a depth of 14.4 kilometers (about 8.7 miles). There were no immediate reports of damage or injuries. Saturday morning’s […]
One expert says these so-called "super pigs" — wild boars that were deliberately bred with domestic pigs – are an "ecological trainwreck."
"This type of sea snake can be more venomous than a cobra and potentially lethal to humans."
The research team collected sand at a depth of 5 centimeters from an area of 2,500 square centimeters.
The world needs more people like this!
Florida biologists captured the heaviest panther ever recorded in the state as part of a research program into the endangered animal's movements.
There's once again potential for more snow in the St. Louis region, both before this weekend ends and as the new workweek unfolds.
Elon Musk's antics have gotten so out of control that even his flunkies at Tesla are starting to get worried. According to a report from The Washington Post, there's growing sentiment among employees that Musk — already involved in multiple enterprises before his foray into politics — has become "disengaged" from the automaker as he serves as President Donald Trump's right hand man, leading the so-called Department of Government Efficiency. The employees range from rank and file to senior manage
Harmful algae bloom off south-west coast blamed for deaths of marine life and poses threat to beaches
It is great news for residents.
Another 5 to 10 inches of snow is coming to Metro Detroit. Here's the timing and how much you can expect outside your door.
“Tesla is really crushing it.”
We have crews spread out throughout the metro assessing the damage caused by the storms.
"It can filter water nearly 10 times faster than classic commercial nanofiltration membranes."
The "choco-holic" opossum turned out to also be dealing with lead toxicity, according to those who treated her
"Our ambition is to advance this technology to the next phase of commercialization."
While just a coincidence in timing coming on the heels of the storm, the magnitude 3.7 quake struck just before midnight and was centered just 7 miles northwest of Malibu, according to the U.S. Geological Survey.
On Friday, the storied coastal road had dissolved into a river of mud and debris after a powerful rainstorm sent those burned hillsides careening toward the ocean, turning canyons into rivers of mud and rocks.
An electric vehicle caught fire at the Army Beach charging station in the Yukon's Southern Lakes region on Friday.Nobody was injured. A bystander reported that the road was blocked off by fire crews in the early afternoon. The electric sedan was wrapped in police tape and left at the scene. Both the interior and exterior of the car were badly damaged, as well as the charging station. The Marsh Lake fire chief confirmed on social media that an investigation is underway.Calvin Gillings, the car's
After receiving several inches of rain Saturday, Clarksville's government released a statement discussing flash floods in the city and the surrounding areas.
The line of storms that spurned at least two confirmed tornadoes have moved out.
Winter's grip is only going to get firmer. Record lows and a winter storm are on the horizon. Here's our latest outlook.
Much of the Big Bend, including Leon County, is under a tornado watch this morning as a severe storm system sweeps across the area.
The weather has not been kind to us over the last week. Sadly, it will only be getting worse. Today is our one and only chance to experience seasonal-average temperatures. The rug gets pulled out from under us later tonight, with arctic air returning. Highs today will climb into the 40s under grey skies with […]
At least three people, including a child, have been killed after a catastrophic and historic flooding event unfolded across portions of four states over the weekend as a powerful storm system produced several threats across the eastern half of the U.S.
The earthquake happened around 10:23 p.m. MT, nearly 33 miles northwest of Toyah, Texas, about 190 miles from El Paso.
A new winter storm is on the horizon, and it could bring heavy snow and ice to the Central U.S. before potentially taking aim at the Northeast. Here's what you need to know.
At 14 degrees, the ion spread rate remained at 84% of what it was at 77 degrees.
An unforgiving atmospheric river passed through San Diego County this week, causing the San Diego River to overflow with several feet of water.
"If it's possible, let them compensate us and relocate us because it's no longer appealing."
UPDATE: 7:25 AM: The National Weather Service reports trees were reported down along Highway 225 south of Interstate 65. MOBILE, Ala. (WKRG) — Storm damage is being reported around the News 5 area. No tornadoes touched down but strong winds and rain brought down trees and powerlines in several places. In Mobile a tree fell […]
Does it make economic and ecological sense to remove Indian River Lagoon causeways? Brevard wants a federal study of removing State Road 528 causeway.
With the cost of everything increasing due to stubborn inflation figures, finding cheaper alternatives for necessities like groceries is more important than ever. That's why we'll look at groceries...
From Bowling Green to Hazard, community leaders and law enforcement officials have posted photos of road conditions and flood damage on social media alongside warnings to residents statewide to avoid travel if possible.
FEMA is doubling down on its decision to not test soil after cleanup of toxic wildfire ash and debris in Los Angeles County, despite public outrage.
The NWS is collecting snowfall data from the winter weather system that impacted southeast Wisconsin from Friday, Feb. 14 into Saturday, Feb. 15.
The latest counts from the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, or FWC, show background to moderate levels along the Lee and Collier coastlines.
St. Paul police arrested a man they believe stole a bronze statue of the famous author, F. Scott Fitzgerald, after a scrapyard reported the suspect tried selling parts of the statue, which was cut into pieces.
A firefighter and inspector with the Los Angeles Fire Department is expected to be OK after making a harrowing escape when his SUV was swept away in a debris flow and plunged roughly 30 feet into the Pacific Ocean Thursday evening. “Here’s something that I’ve never really seen before. A Fire Department SUV sitting in […]
The worst of the rainfall in the first atmospheric river to hit San Diego this year has passed, but the impacts will still be felt for the next few days at the region's beaches.
Prepare to stay home Sunday as 25-35+ cm of snow blankets much of southern Ontario. Whiteout conditions are possible at times
As the greater Portland metro area region thaws out from two rounds of winter weather for the past two days, some people who were forced to abandon their cars stuck in snow overnight are attempting to salvage their vehicles.
It may be Valentine’s Day, but New England is not feeling the love from Mother Nature this weekend as a winter storm threatens to bring snowy and icy conditions across the region.
A pair of threats played out across the South this weekend. Here's what you need to know.
(Bloomberg) -- The Trump administration granted its first approval for a project to export liquefied natural gas as the administration seeks to make good on a pledge to unleash a torrent of fuel shipments.Most Read from BloombergProgressive Portland Plots a ComebackWhy American Mobility Ground to a HaltA Filmmaker’s Surreal Journey Into His Own Private WinnipegHow to Build a Neurodiverse CitySpaceX Bid to Turn Texas Starbase Into City Is Set for Vote in MayThe US Department of Energy conditional
Red tide is caused by a harmful algae bloom. It can bring respiratory problems and even fish kills in high concentrations.
The San Juan Creek in California was flowing uncontrollably on Friday after an atmospheric rain that hit Southern California on Thursday.
After a week heavy water releases through Shasta Dam, Lake Shasta is still more full than usual. Here's how much rain water the lake received.