Since nobody has posted any scientific literature yet, here's a [review](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006320718313636?casa_token=xemqqroJOu0AAAAA:bZkBZs6WK2dtpYVg1P5pyaBtqLX3ywtxVmuL14UWfMxZVGNC6tZeSWXUbhRkAx7R4dWRbLfqJw) from Biological Conservation with over 3000 citations (that's a shit load).

>Over 40% of insect species are threatened with extinction.

>Habitat loss by conversion to intensive agriculture is the main driver of the declines.

>Agro-chemical pollutants, invasive species and climate change are additional causes.
UK guy here. I used to get so FUCKED OFF by the amount of times I had to jet wash dead bugs off the front of my car during the summer. I'd spend hours washing my car to a glorious shine and these fucking bugs would ruin it just a day later. 

For the last four or so years I've rarely had to. I'm genuinely terrified.
this is like how some people in Oklahoma say tornadoes are getting worse and more frequent and end with "I wonder why"


Edit: some of yall are taking  this comment  to seriously on a subreresdit called clever comebacks I said it as a half ass joke.
Imagine the tone he'd use to mock anybody who had come up to him 20 years ago and stated that he should be concerned about the butterflies .
10 years ago, I could go for a walk at night, and all the streetlights, etc. were swarmed with insects.  Last night I went out, and I'd be luck to see one lonely bug looping around a light.  Those bugs feed birds and bats and other bugs in the food chain, and so on and so on.      
        
It sucks that people like Clarkson won't notice the collapse until it's too late to do anything about it.
No, you see, its all a plan of the left and the deepstate, they eat babies (and doing so are able to speak with aliens).

This global warming stuff is fake.
[deleted]
Tbf, hes been pretty good about making his farm very environmentally friend (at least that's what I remember from Clarkson's farm season one, haven't seen s2 yet). 
People are capable of change and I like to think that he is too.
[removed]
the butterflies in particular are less to do with climate change and more to do with monoculture. acres and acres of lawns, corn, and soybeans don't exactly provide diverse ecosystems for species that rely on flowers. there are some species of butterfly whose caterpillars only eat one particular species of plant.
It's actually more to do with the pesticides than climate change but climate change is a result of our chemical dependency and capitalism eating its own tail
It's widely accepted that pesticides are the main cause of insect decline in the UK. Its nothing to do with our climate.
 https://www.rspb.org.uk/whats-happening/news/pesticides-and-wildlife-report

https://www.eadt.co.uk/news/21474638.pesticides-used-farmers-damaging-wildlife-tv-presenter-chris-packham-warns-ahead-suffolk-visit/
This is less about climate change and more monoculture and insecticide
In the case of butterflies and bees and birds its way more attributable to habitat loss
Actually it's due to habitat loss, climate change, pesticides, disease, and invasive plants.
Pesticides.
Clarkson is fully aware and always has been. So much of him on Top Gear and The Grand Tour were a caricature. If you watch Clarksons farm you will see that he is aware and cares.
"climate change" aka pesticides and irresponsible agriculture.
Clarkson has known that climate change is an issue for years. People can change their minds.
I remember having to almost scrape all the bugs off my windshield & bumper after even a short road trip. And the smell of cooked bugs coming off my car during a hot day.

Now I'm actually a little shocked when one splats, there's so few.
Jeremy acknowledged climate change on the latest season of Clarksons farm. He made a joke how "someone should probably start doing something about it".
It's interesting how Jeremy became a farmer and all of a sudden the realities of the modern world punched him so hard you'd think he got someone's sandwich order wrong
I’m waiting for Cons to blame liberals for not warning them hard enough about global warming.
And glysophate
Just go to the woods it's all there
„Climate Change“? What kind of insecticide is that?

Insecticide, mostly neonicotinoides are what’s killing the insects, specifically the butterflies and is the reason why we see fewer and fewer bugs and next to zero butterflies.

Climate change might play a role too, but a minor one. The vastly overwhelming factor of influence is insecticides.
Actually it has very little to do with climate change, pesticides, fungicides and all other "cides" are far worse for the insects. But if people really cared about animals they wouldn't eat them.
If he wants butterflies he can come by my place.  Monarch butterflies all month.
Nope, it's totally the trans chemicals from chem trails that are turning the butterflies gay.
My mom asked me the other day what some random creature in my yard’s purpose in the ecosystem was.  Eventually we ended up on the topic of bugs.  I asked her the last time she had to use windshield fluid to clean hugs off her car.  She started to talk, then got super quiet and almost white in the face.  “Oh my god, it’s gotten really bad hasn’t it?” She finally managed to say.
I’m not saying climate change isn’t also part of it, but I think it’s most likely the pesticides which are decimating insect populations everywhere.
Climate change and pesticides are both harmful to butterflies.

However, the main issue for them is habitat loss. Look it up  


Let's talk about the correct thing if we're talking about saving the butterflies.
Or it could be all the chemicals and fertilizers…
id say less climate change and more habitat loss.

there are no wild fields or woods anymore, its all manicured yards and gardens for miles in every direction.

plus pesticides.
Climate change is definitely an issue, but it's not the reason behind the loss of butterflies. It's pesticides, pollution and habitat loss due to agriculture and construction that are the cause here.
Sometimes I wonder if you guys confuse climate change with atmosphere poisoning, 

Y'all seem to use it interchangeably and while it is similar it is not the same
Technically not climate change last I checked for this issue. It’s from use of pesticides in farming.
Idk I see tons and tons of butterflies, bees, bumblebees and others up here in Sweden
I think we should look long and hard at the chemicals we use. Saw some videos on here about spraying weeds with bug spray. Tried it myself. Won’t be using bug spray again
It's not climate change. It's pesticides.
There's also the whole "cycle" thing.  Don't know if that's enough to cause what you are talking about but I've seem lots of bug cycles from ticks to ants, etc
We are living through the anthropocenes mass extinction event - although longer than other extinction events, it would appear reflected in bird, bug and mammal populations https://www.reuters.com/graphics/GLOBAL-ENVIRONMENT/INSECT-APOCALYPSE/egpbykdxjvq/
The world 🌍 was a better place when top Gear ⚙️ was full tilt
Agri biz chemical warfare should not be excused as climate change. Climate change is real and devastating, so is chemical saturation of our environment 
Tons of butterflies in central Florida Jeremy!
[deleted]
If you want to make someone who lives on the East Coast of the USA sad, ask them where all the fireflies are.
The deep state liberals used those so-called environmental protection laws to put covid vaccines in the water and turned all the bugs gay! Only Donald Trump can drain the swamp and make our water clean again!

/s (insane that I have to clarify this)
Before we had two years of Rain on the East Coast Australia (2020/2021) we used to have nice large golden orb spiders all summer long. I would wait until they went away before winter to do any trimming of bushes. Sadly they are hardly here anymore.
Funny but really more sad how the curiosity ends at “something is afoot”. Yeah something is clearly afoot, nice observation, but then no concern whatsoever of what that something might be.
It can't be climate change because that would mean he was actually wrong about shit he knows fuck all about.
I hate wasps. I really hate them. 

Yet, I am fucking alarmed by the lack of them this summer. I have not seen a single one. This is NOT normal. I think this is catastrophic. 

I have seen however, soooooo many Japanese Beatles. My Apple tree is having a perpetual orgy them.
Action is needed fast, else we may encounter silent spring 
Clarkson's always been concerned about the environment. It's only on TV that he acts and says things to piss off the environmentalists lol.
The same guy who essentially dedicated the opening of an entire episode of his show to explaining the effects climate change had on rural Cambodian fishermen? 

Its hardly a clever comeback when the guy believes in human made climate change and recognized his own part in it.
he doesnt deny it anymore and hasnt for years, his original tweet is refrencing climate change!
To be fair Jeremy's character arc of going from absolute petrol head to voice of agriculture has been great
Climate change is real, but the loss of butterflies is more connected with habitat loss and pesticides.
Seen loads of people posting this zinger... except Clarkson publicly accepted he was wrong about climate change years ago. So not really a great come back at all.
A german satirist brought it to the point: "The whole nature is dying!" It's not just climate change, everything we do is turning this planet into a wasteland.

The really infuriating thing is that pretty much all of this was known since at least the 1970s. We knew what was happening for over 50 YEARS and did nothing to stop it while we still had the chance.
Shouldnt we like forgive him and be happy, that he learned and changed? At least I did. Its ok to be wrong. You are not a bad person, if you realised you were wrong and changed.
I wouldn’t call Clarkson a climate change denier. At least in recent years that’s frankly inaccurate. He‘s also actively working on making his farm sustainable and as environmentally friendly as possible.
He hasnt even denied climate change unironically. How is it a clever comeback?? People will post their own cringe tweets and put it on here
Insects love heat. If anything there should be a lot more of them. Something else messes up the bugs.
We should encourage people to change their opinions on climate change, not ridicule them for doing so
Clarkson is really weird. If you judge him by his actions, he's a man who travels all over the world and seems genuinely interested to meet and see people from every culture and background. Who really cares about helping his community and changing his farm to be more sustainable and environmentally friendly.

And then he opens his mouth
Well, there is not only climate change, but also the accumulation of insecticides in the environment. 

Climate change is the environmental problem, but our other actions make it a more serious problem than it would be in its own right. 

It is very hot in summer, but it is incredible how much it lowers the temperature to have some trees and fertile land instead of a one-hectare slab of asphalt. 

Animal deaths on the road and accidents due to these collisions can be prevented by placing ecoducts on the road. 

Plastics would be much less of a problem with better garbage collection systems.
It's genuinely getting depressing. My dad has a little greenhouse and it used to be full of dead bugs who flew in and died from the heat. For the last 2/3 years, i'm lucky if i can find a fly or a wasp.
UK guy here. I used to get so FUCKED OFF by the amount of times I had to jet wash dead bugs off the front of my car during the summer. I'd spend hours washing my car to a glorious shine and these fucking bugs would ruin it just a day later.

For the last four or so years I've rarely had to. I'm genuinely terrified.
Yes, but at least he’s changed his opinion on it and the environment. Better than the other people that still deny it happening.
Glyphosate farming doesn’t help
Oh and spraying for mosquitoes. Kills every insect not only mosquitoes.
Butterflies are also really sensitive to pesticides.
If you watch Clarkson Farm you know he understands how dumb he used to be about climate change… he genuinely cares about taking care of the earth now that he’s seen first hand what’s happened out there. Gotta give him credit for that, most guys his age would die on that hill
Why the fuck are so many people only blaming climate change? Sure, it contributes. But the real issue here is "forever pesticides." This is an issue that deserves the same response as CFC refrigeratant got in the '90s.
He didn’t deny it but his entire point is cars normal ICE cars are not the problem it’s reckless industry
Climate change…. Totally not the glysophate and roundup thats been spread on every field and farm in the world for years.
Did he actually deny it or did he just not care? Actually asking.
The planet is dying and it can't be stopped.
More likely “that’s the roundup ready cropping system you switched to which decimated biodiversity and pollinator habitat”… but climate change sounds way better 

And they overlap and are both manmade disasters perpetuated for money, so
Just pointing out he believes in climate change now. The pointing fingers at people who have grown is a bit of a daft response. When I was younger I didn’t believe climate change was real, now I’m a massive advocate. How dare people change their opinions!!
In defense of Jeremy, he has brought up and validated climate change in recent years
Pesticides. Ask yourself this, why are there butterflies in warmer climates? To suggest a 1 degree difference kills ALL butterflies but ignore pesticides show that you aren't serious about this subject.
Idiot
And he has ALREADY WALKED IT BACK.

  
[https://deadline.com/2024/04/jeremy-clarksons-farm-top-gear-the-grand-tour-comic-creation-global-warming-joke-1235897875/](https://deadline.com/2024/04/jeremy-clarksons-farm-top-gear-the-grand-tour-comic-creation-global-warming-joke-1235897875/)
Clarkson now accepts the concept of man made climate change. 

He has shown over the years that he is a stubborn old goat but absolutely is able to change his mind. 


You have to be willing to accept people who can admit that they were wrong. Refusing to do so is just as petty and pathetic as the people who dig in their heels.
That farm about to be gone too. #FAFO
How about you welcome soch a huge convert who can use his voice to reach everyone he influenced from those 30 years...
In Clarkson's defence, he never outright denied climate change once. He just ignores it so he can drive fast cars.
Can’t believe I’m standing up for Clarkson but the fella came around to climate change a few years ago now and has owned up to being wrong completely. I’m one of those people that thinks if someone admits they were wrong and has shown change, it’s bad form to keep reminding them of their mistake. Maybe I’m just a weak-willed loser idk
And then made significant effort to renounce via Clarksons Farm.
Clarkson's Farm is an awesome show tho, completely binged it
How has he been denying climate change for 30 years?  He’s brought it up multiple times in Clarkson’s Farm.
Hmm, doesn’t sound likely. Have any of you considered that the government is planting all of these butterflies to turn us gay?!
What happen to lighting bugs?
Blame it on the herbicide and pesticide you uses on the farm Mr Clarkson
Any data here on population declines that are mentioned? Crazy stuff
Anyone wanna teach Jeremy about cause and effect?
Pesticides and habitat loss more than climate change
Has anyone else noticed Fire Flies/Lightning bugs aren’t as abundant