It really started taking off right about when I was born.

So, sorry. Must be my fault.
Yah but the government and large corporations don't know how to read graphs that don't show dollar signs. Gotta make a new one
You know it’s bad cause the line gets red
If you look at the beginning of the 1940-1945, I would attribute the rise in temperatures due to the vast industrialization of manufacturing to support the war efforts during WWII. What do you think?
10 corporations causing more than 70% of global emissions....
But it's upto us little guys to stop using straws and recycle more?...
Edit : spelling
Tbh i dont think this illustrates how much of a danger this is to human civilization at all.

If you want to explain a "flat earther" or the many people alike those, why global warming is so urgent. Then you just put them in a cauldron with a harmless chemical, which turns into acid if you heat it up by some degrees. And then you heat it up by some degrees.

The question is not if the world becomes 2°F hotter, the question is what the ocean looks like if its 2° hotter, what this means for clean water availibility, for simple living costs.  
The question is if a few quick bucks we make now are really worth paying interest costs at extortion levels.
You can see when the production for both world wars spiked.
Blame shitty corporations not me
This is great data and proves a good point but something about plus 2 degrees doesn't hit me with the term startling
The temperature rise in Fs is inversely proportional to how many Fs the people in charge give about this topic.
It made a flesh light
That's a gem of an infographic. Very well done.
Earth is billions of years old. Only a fool would take data starting from 140 years ago and try to come up with a weather pattern.
Since when does NASA use fahrenheit?
The more we populate, move around, buy more, use more, build more, it's going to happen even more.
So can anyone do the math as to how long it’ll take for extinction level event to occur? exactly how many degrees is ‘one too many?’
So, what is the correct temperature for the earth?  What is the target we’re aiming for?
Climatr change denialists: *Anrgy reeching*
Adults be like "nice I hate the cold"
Damn hate to do you like this but if youre going under the premise that Zero is baseline and that is not accurate...  Climate is always different, and ever evolving.... There was a time a 2 mile ice sheet covered the Arctic, also a timeframe where the planet was 10+ degrees hotter on the average... Average temperatures only starting 150 years ago is comical...
Humans are idiots
Now do a billion years
[removed]
Here's the thing a lot of people dont seem to understand... Global warming, or pretty much anything we do for that matter, won't destroy the Earth. The worst-case scenario is that it'll just make it unlivable for us and most, if not all, other life.

The planet has survived mass extinctions before. We aren't special. If these big corporations don't make an effort, we won't be Earth's legacy. We'll be a footnote. All in the name of a thing we created ourselves: Money.
Yep, we're fucked big time.
I love the visualization. The best i have seen so far!
Do you want to know what's really interesting, you would think that the industrial revolution and including World war 1 and World war 2 with the increase production of war related items. There would be a huge spike in pollution at these times but yet the temperature steadily increases each year consistently. If that's not a sign that pollution really doesn't have fuckall to do with global warming I don't know what else would. 
Even the use of two nuclear bombs in World war 2 which would have created large amounts of dust particles in the atmosphere would have made the temperature drop but yet it really doesn't have any effect
Lord, grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change.
Did this happen at any other point in earth history?
Great. I’m sure politicians will do nothing
I think the sample size is too small.. what if they did  100000 yrs? I don't know anything tho. Just seems something that is 4 billion yrs old having a sample size of 120 yrs isnt long enough..
The earth is almost 5 billion years old, let’s use a 150 year snap shot to prove our point. Trust the science!
Is just God hugging us closer…
Is this saying that the extreme colds and hots are getting extremer? I really can’t tell as the average person.
90s and 2000s is when a bunch of poor and developing nations got much much richer and more energy hungry due to globalized trade. Good on them, but kinda sucky for global warming.
well according to futurama nuclear winter will fix this up in a snap
Probably done by Michael Mann.
+2 degrees in 50 years?
In my opinion, this doesn’t really show how startling climate change is; that would involve showing the impact it has on the environment.  Of course, this illustration is important to show that things are getting worse quicker, but supplemental material is needed to truly send the message home.
the world is gna be scary in the future. hopefully this generation will think twice about having kids. that’s what i worry bout the most is my kids are gna have to deal with this crazy world.
Now do it on a timescale that matters.  Like over the last 1000 years, or better yet, 10,000 years.
Morons.
This is like judging human health on .012 seconds of a heartbeat.
And what about the other 3 billion years
Celsius please
If the global is warming why was it so damn cold yesterday. Librals explain. 

This is a joke
well this graph doesn’t really support corporate profits does it? plus since when has nasa been a credible news source???
Fake, the 1920-1940 period was hotter and is not shown on the screen.
Wow sooooo scary😱😱
Yeah, because Nasa had all that data back in 1920 and before give me a fucken Brake!
and people still don’t think it’s real
Doesn't matter what we (America) do if we can get China, India, and Russia on board, and we're currently not on the best terms with Russia or China at the moment. In fact, we seem to be provoking then instead of working with them.
Thank the british, europeans and the americans for this.
Let's assume for a moment (regardless of whether it is true or not) that humans are NOT responsible for this. What realistic theory could explain it?
One day people will realize Carbon and Cows  have nothing to do with Climate Change and by the time people realize the real reason it will be too late.
Have you ever looked farther back in history? There are more instances where the temperature gets significantly hotter, and colder
There are studies based on longer periods of time that should give a comprehensive and clear picture of the development. This is like looking at pictures from one week to explain the whole year
The warmer the better, I fuckkng hate the cold. Bring on the global warming!! Bout to go burn some fucking tires!! Hey nasa I'm not buying your globalist bullshit so called  "science". WE are the carbon you want to eliminate!!
We need to shut down nasa, all this science is harshing my vibe /s
I thought the threshold was in C not F
Throw up all the fancy charts,graphs,animations you want.Climate change is much less a threat to human existence than the psychopaths who use it for power,and control over the citizens.
Really didn't show anything considering the start point, maybe if they could do this same animation starting a millennium ago we could really see that we have almost no effect on global temperatures. I like that people think they're the main character but please realise you're an insignificant speck of dust in our universe
Does no one look at the core samples . Keep giving your money to the rich out of fear .. banks wouldn't give loans for ocean front property js . 🤷
1880 is not that long ago on a geologic scale. I'd be interested to see this model over a couple million years
What a useless animation. Do they actually think someone who doesn’t know much about climate change would learn something from this?
Its like a bat-signal for young republiQans to try out all the talking points
They really should have done more in the 1880’s to curb this!!! It’s a damn shame!!!
Maybe just me but... this doesn't clearly demonstrate anything except a line going in circles.
/dataisbeautiful
Im old enough to remember when global cooling was all the rage.
Really cool animation. Not worth showing to climate science deniers because they’ll claim it’s all fabricated. Shame.
Still not even touching the med evil warm period
It doesn’t really matter how clearly you illustrate it. Climate change deniers at this point aren’t uninformed, they are aware of the facts they just stubbornly refuse to believe them with shit excuses. I could easily see someone saying that this shows it’s only a difference of 2 degrees, and that’s nothing, seasons have a variation of 70+ degrees in certain places 2 doesn’t mean shit. And further rebuttals to that wouldn’t make a difference, people like this are firmly set on their beliefs and will not change them no matter what.
This is laughable, really.  Perhaps they didn’t show an animation over the course of many ice ages and interglacials, periods between ice ages, for the very obvious reason that it would undermine their hysterical crowing about climate change being a mostly human caused phenomenon.  The FACT is that C02 has been MUCH higher during long tens of thousands of year stretches of time known as ICE AGES.  If C02 mattered that much, acted as a thermostat, this wouldn’t be possible.  C02 has a very minor and self limiting effect on temperature.  Fact.  During hundreds of millions of years of earths existence, the POLES were tropical!  Yes, tropical!  Long before SUV’s.  Lol.  Also a fact is that below 150 parts per million, all life on earth dies!  Yes, plants die below that.  We are at about 400 ppm now.  That’s STILL extremely low by earth history standards!  You don’t even have to go far back to find it much warmer!  Roman warm period.  Look it up.  That’s like yesterday in earth years.  They grew grapes in northern England!  This whole thing is a religion, devoid of withstanding scrutiny.
How could we possibly measure the global average temperature in 1880 with same level of accuracy we can today?
How accurate were the tools and records back in 1880?
Great. Now run through the last 1000 ice ages as well as in between warmer cycles. Tell me how is this pre-ice age stage in the cycle unique?
[deleted]
This is fear mongering at its finest.
Hahahaha, this is great, the same environmental experts in the 70's were talking about the coming ice age that would have us all in the snow by 2000. It is a money making con game, that is all it is.
Buh Buh Buh it snowed today where I live! That means it's a hoax, right?
Who knows, maybe the global economic slowdown that seems to be in progress will be a good thing. Less production, transport and consumption while green tech develops further.
This is a beautiful way to illustrate it. Folks at NASA are really something else.
It doesn’t show the scale. Heat a tea cup of water by two degrees. Heat a bowl of water by two degrees. Heat a bucket of water by two degrees. Then a tub then a pool. Now scale that to the ocean and the volume of the atmosphere by two degrees. That’s scary. So much energy.
No biggie
We're fucked. I fear for my kids.
Population growth to blame
Crazy how this coincides with population.......

More people, more food.
More food, more farming.
More farming, more greenhouse gas.

More people, more jobs.
More jobs, more transportation. 
More transportation, more greenhouse gas.

Also, with all these people and stuff, we get more garbage.  This cycle will continue with population growth.  Look what happened around the 40s.  Population dipped and temp went down. Then the boomers hit and steady population growth and temp from there.
We’re fucked aren’t we…
Ahhhh yes.  On a planet billions of years old, we’re going to harvest and consider data from only the last 100 years.  
Quite telling indeed.
Anyone notice that just towards the end (2021 onwards) the temperature started to decline quite rapidly.

I’d say we’re going towards a cool change in the next few decades.

To me this looks like all part of a long term cycle.
How about the 2,000 years or 2,000,000 before the last 100 years?
Interesting graph.  Should go along with some real world examples.  Hurricanes getting worse, droughts, and whatever other consequence that comes from this.
And there’s nothing you can do, earth has these cycles
Why not start in the year 1000. Better still, based on core samples, how about the last fifty million years?
Well, a lot of people are going to see this, and disregard it because it's just a few degrees. But a few degrees more and thousands of species go extinct.
u/savevideo
Why are we startled?  This has been happening for eons. Up and down for time eternal. Hot for dinosaurs,,, cold for all the south living mammoths and polar bears.
We are fucked.
2 degree F  in 100 years. /shrug not startled.
Crap data, crap chart
Cooling cycle warming cycle, big woo.