I fucking hate the paradox where fixing a problem makes people think you didn't need to fix the problem because it never got bad enough to affect them. Successful prevention makes it seem, to the uninformed, that it was never needed.
That whole issue proved we could influence global climate, and still people deny humans have an effect on the environment.
"Remember that one big issue that got fixed and no one talked about it anymore? Curious isn't it?"

Sooner or later they're gunna have to run out of bullshit, right? Surely there's only so much stupid shit they can generate.

"WHY DOESNT ANYONE TALK ABOUT THE BLACK DEATH ANYMORE? CURIOUS HOW IT JUST WENT AWAY. EXPLAIN THAT, LIBS?"

"WEIRD HOW POLIO STOPPED BEING TALKED ABOUT AFTER THE VACCINE. DID IT CAUSE MEMORY LOSS?"
Wait they fixed the ozone problem??
Matt Walsh is the trolliest troll who has ever trolled. And that’s saying something considering Candace Owens exists in the world.
This reminds me of people who complained about the Y2K panic and said "See? it was no big deal." It was a HUGE deal and smart people did a ton of work to prevent a crisis.
Walsh is amazing. He somehow makes people who don’t know shit about shit feel like they are multiple-PhDs level intellectuals
The only reason this happened is because there was another easy to obtain, inexpensive, and safe chemical they could use as alternative.

Otherwise we'd all be dead now.
Remember when Matt Walsh's opinions mattered?  


Me neither.
Two things here:

1) Matt Walsh is still the dumbest mother fucker on YouTube. Yes, dumber than the Paul Brothers.

2) The CFC story shows just how quickly we can fix things once we actually get to fixing them. We need to make corporations see that there's a profit to be had in going green. Once that's done, the environmental repair kicks into high gear. Once we stop wrecking shit, the Earth really does try to get back to the steady state.
has anyone determined if Matt Walsh is actually this hydrocephalicly stupid, or if he's just fleecing those who are?
Matt Walsh is an open, proud fascist, white supremacist, misogynistic piece of literal rotten garbage. Nobody should ever pay attention to him.
Remember when disinformation and denialism wasn’t widely spread by every idiot who thinks they’re smarter than experts?
It would have taken a single Google search for him to find that out. He doesn't care about what the truth is, he wants to push his agenda. And there are people who fall for it. Every time. Not because what he said convinced them, but because it was already what they believed.
And the greenhouse effect was discovered by John Tyndall in *checks notes* 1859... We're fucked
Can you murder someone with words who knows they're full of shit and not worried about being called out? Because all engagement specially responses like this are helpful to the brand of Matt Walsh.
This reminds me of how people act like the y2k panic was unfounded because nothing happened but in reality a lot of people worked really hard to make it not happen.
Filters and scrubbers were introduced in coal power plants in many European countries very late in the game since the acid rain their brown coal power plants produced fell mostly over Scandinavia. It was  standard procedure to drop huge amounts of lime into lakes all over Sweden to make them more Ph-neutral. Doing nothing turned the lakes into pools of acid and fish don't thrive in acid. But today these airplanes and choppers dropping lime are more or less gone since the acid rain also is gone thanks to a global effort to combat that dirty shit.
There are still holes in the ozone... https://ozonewatch.gsfc.nasa.gov/
The other replies are terrible too. 

"What ever happened to acid rain?" We reduced sulfur emissions by 93% in 25 years and it never became a problem. 

"They said there was going to be an ice age in the 70's." One news article was created about one study that wasn't even that good. It was heavily criticized by all the people saying that the planet would warm, instead. Turns out those people were right, some of them were very accurate. 

"They said the sun would run out of fuel by 2020." Uh...what? Who the fuck would say that? 

Basically, conservatives are getting mad because people who are far smarter than they are warned everybody about problems that then got solved, but for decades conservatives haven't had an attention span of more than 2 weeks so they never pay attention to how problems are solved. Instead, their lizard brain activates and they recall something vague from their past then, without an ounce of research (because that's what communist socialists do) they just scream on social media about how it was all fake.
Conservatives are *really* good at ignoring the comfort other people's work brings them.

Reminds me of another type of person too...
Same thing happened with Y2K: people took it seriously and fixed the worst stuff, so everything ended up fine.  The people making fun of it being a ‘hysteria’ tend to ignore that part.
Same people that think Y2K was an overexaggeration and there were nothing to worry about, since no major problems happened
It's still dormant in the antarctic though. It's not completely gone.
I remember they discontinued one form of Freon and everyone had to switch to another one, from R-12 to R-134a. I worked at a shop that got a special permit to evacuate the old freon into a special collector. The equipment was expensive, but it had to be done.
Pretty much the best outcome of that shit happened.

Which is a miracle in it of itself. Like damn.
He's so dense light bends around him.

- Malcolm Tucker
[deleted]
Walsh, Crowder, Peterson, and others like them are ChrisoFascist fundamentalist. Any argument or impotent point they try to make using science it the ultimate bad faith argument.
The car companies were all very familiar with electronic fuel injection systems, but they fought hard to keep the slightly cheaper carburetors for as long as possible.

Once smog rules tightened just enough that EFI was needed, they all told customers how it was good for power and fuel mileage.

The switch to EFI and UN-leaded gasoline has eliminated 90% of the smog that cars emitted.
Matt Walsh, making a fool of himself as usual.
Who listens to that guy, seriously?
I don't know WHO Matt Walsh is, but i know WHAT he is: an imbecile.
Starting to think that *maybe* Matt Walsh is a dumb shit full of bad faith arguments.
The ozone still has a big hole in it btw.
Being willfully ignorant and leading others astray isn’t intelligence.
can you say anything fucking stupider??
Oh fuck you mean science is real??!!?!
I know that people believe that Matt Walsh has beliefs but I just think he is a grifter who believes in nothing but making money and becoming popular.
The right wing’s willful conflation of “I don’t understand [thing]” with “no one understands [thing]” is a strategy.
Well played DK, well played!
Remember when Matt Walsh said anything intelligent ever? I don't
I remember that it was ticking awesome! Gave me so much hope for global warming and now here we are -_-
My goodness Matt Walsh is a fucking idiot
"Perhaps the greatest example of global cooperation in history."

More like the first and last example. We couldn't even get people to wear a mask to stop others from dying. I hate it here.
All the replies are agreeing with him. The people that follow Matt Walsh are the worst of the uneducated morons you could find.
Matt Walsh can choke on my nut sack.
Remember when Matt Walsh was a humble, thoughtful Christian blogger who wrote with heart and then suddenly began expressing nothing but loathing for everything and everyone who doesn't identify as or fit into the purview of the white Christian straight male? What happened to him?
Remember when China is still a huge producer of CFCs still fucking up the ozone and there still is a god damn hole in the ozone above Australia so you get sunburned in direct sunlight after like 5 minutes and has the highest rates of skin cancer in the world?

Yeah me neither....
As a society, we used to correctly call people like Matt Walsh "bullshit artists," and I'm aching to return to those bygone days
Just like how we don't talk about smallpox anymore. You know why?
These people are so dumb they can't connect the dots between seatbelts in cars and less deaths by flying through a windshield
The Internet has given the stupid people a voice.
Matt Walsh is really a goddamn fucking idiot, that's kind of impressive
The entirety of Australia and NZ haven't forgotten. NZ still has skin cancer rates of 1 in **3** because we have fuck all ozone over us; we literally BBQ ourselves if we stay outside for longer than 30mins without sunscreen without cloud cover and even with cloud cover it's a serious risk. 

If you visit NZ, listen to the locals and the guides about putting sunscreen on, we aren't trying to fuck with you. You will get sunburnt.
I miss when being a moron was embarrassing not a life style for conservatives
I remember me asking my parents about. I was cleaning a carpet with my mom, I asked her what the gas for the propellant was used. Not in those words, I was nine or ten. 

She said it was FCCH Fluor chlorine carbohydrate. I told that this was very bad for the ozone layer. She agreed but told me these gasses won’t hurt the ozone layer for about 30 years and we need to clean this carpet. And thus we sprayed to clean the fucking carpet. This was in 87.
Thank goodness ozone issue was agreed upon and getting resolved... I'm current political climate it would've been difficult
I gave up the best hairspray ever, to heal the ozone. It was a real thing. my hair is now straight by nature. 

Small sacrifice.
Lol who the fuck is this Matt Walsh guy? I always see him gleefully showing off his ignorance and then getting owned online
This is a great example of the preparedness paradox.
Why don't these best-responders ever suffix with "...you fucking idiot"
I literally learned this in like middle school or high school, in Texas of all places. Good lord, please take me out of this world.
I didnt know the ozone hole got fixed, i thought people just stopped talking about it. Learning that made me feel slightly better
A murder happened, the police solved the case and are no longer investigating, therefore the murder never happened.
Thomas Midgley Jr.

Creator of CFC's and responsible for Adding tetra-ethyl lead into gasoline to decrease engine knocking, therefore spewing tons of lead into the atmosphere for years.

He had the largest impact on the atmosphere than any other single organism ever
Climate change deniers piss me off more than any other type of moron out there
Matt Walsh is a religious fundamentalist grifter who doesn't believe in science and only says what will get him the most engagement and coverage.

We should all collectively ignore his existence.
That's some good news I have heard in a long time
Remember that time there were adults in the room and they fixed the problem for us? gLeRbALiStS
Matt Walsh is a dipshit
I love ice cream.
The meetings were hosted by conservative prime minister Mulroney and the protocol documents signed of by him, Reagan, Major along with a bunch of other conservative and liberal leaders over time. 

Can't imagine current conservative leaders touching anything even remotely similar now. 

Memory is getting hazy so feel free to correct.
I would mention Mr Walsh is one of the Dumbest Motherfuckers on the Planet ...   
BUT, he has already done that in his Bio'.   
"Theocratic fascist"
Matt Walsh: "What??"
... Also, _Matt_¹, we still **do** talk about the ozone layer, monitor the extent of the holes and have to wear much higher SPF than at one time we ever considered, because while the layer has somewhat stabilized, it certainly [hasn't rebounded](https://www.eea.europa.eu/themes/climate/ozone-depleting-substances-and-climate-change-1).

That some countries continue to belch out [huge amounts](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-021-03260-5)
of CFC's and other ozone depleting chemicals certainly doesn't help.

[1] Ye twat.
Matt Walsh is really a goddamn fucking idiot, that's kind of impressive
Matt you're a fucking idiot
Matt Walsh is a fucking idiot.

He has to know it at this point with how much self-owning he does.
Think about the humans you know - who of them are proactive vs reactive? Which of these groups is more or less successful in life?
Wrong. The original tweet shows on a frontpage to a different audience. The target audience for the original tweet doesn't see the response, so it's not "demolished" in any measure.
It was only possible in capitalist western economies because the ozone hole affected white people in a significant way.
Derek forgot to end his rebuttal the proper way by wrapping up with,

*"Matt Walsh, you brainless shitcunt."*
Who is Matt Walsh and why is he willfully being a total dipshit?
Remember when we talk about it, fixed it, and didn't have to talk about it again?

Instead of mentioning things like gun violence, mental health, financial stability of the lower middle class, or your body your choice issues, im going to spin it as if it was a lie we just mowed over and deny its getting hotter every year, consistently. 

I'm surprised older Americans could be so fucking dumb. Like, what made older people so fucking dumb? The fact that they weren't using the internet before they turned 30?
So that proves fossil fuels have no impact on the ozone layer then I guess.
Walsh is a loud mouthed ignoramous.
"Hurr durr matt walsh so stupid"

He's not stupid, and the fact that he gets so much engagement from making libs mad proves it. He's a troll to be ignored; you will never convince someone who follows grifters like this they are wrong by trying to dunk on them. He knows he argues in bad faith; he doesn't care and neither does his base.
I pity the poor hamster tasked with operating the controls in Matt Walsh's head, I really do.
Maybe Matt Walsh and his ilk should consider shutting the hell up if they are going to form opinions without even doing the bare minimum fact checking. At this point, they’re just making shit up and their intransigence towards climate change makes other troglodytes think rolling coal is a fun way to annoy “environmentalists.” Meanwhile, the Earth is actually starting to experience catastrophic climate phenomenon while the world’s leaders and billionaires give a collective shrug.
I hate that we’re always on defense. We’re always having to give these detailed explanations to shut down arguments and accusations that are blatantly false and made in bad faith. But it’s too late. The idea is out there and we’re automatically on defense. Ronald Reagan basically said “if you’re explaining, you’re loosing”. How do we get on offense? How can progressives control the conversation with the effectiveness of the right, without arguing or accusing in bad faith, and without misinformation?
Well, they did stop talking about it. It's never part of education. The risk is, if we don't talk about it and educate ourselves of the past, we forget and are bound to make the same mistakes again.
It’s easy to think everything is a conspiracy when you don’t know how anything works
A clear example of how omitting facts can skew your statement.
What were the major changes made with the Montreal Protocol? Obviously reducing emissions by over 97% but what drove those reductions?
Matt Walsh is the choadiest choad to ever choad.
Similarly - remember all the panic over Y2K and then nothing? Thank your local programmer/IT guy if they are 23+ years in the business.
Matt Walsh is a fucking idiot.
MATT WALSH HOW FUCKING STUPID ARE YOU???
The world must be a very frsutrating and isolating place for people who exist at the top of scientific fields having to refute the same stupid, bullshit claims made by jerk offs like Matt Walsh, day in and day out,  and to still have people who argue like "wtf do you know? you got those PH.Ds from some liberal college lol"
Derek Thompson is a good egg. I love his stuff.