
As a reminder, this subreddit [is for civil discussion.](/r/politics/wiki/index#wiki_be_civil)

In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban. 

If you see comments in violation of our rules, please report them.

 For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/wiki/approveddomainslist) to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
 

***


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/politics) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Dumbass state sinking into the ocean and getting covered with seaweed.
Ask DeSantis why home insurance rates keep going up in Florida.  Must be woke climate scientists talking to woke Insurance company actuarials about woke projections that Florida has a woke future under the woke Gulf and the woke Atlantic.
Take a tequila shot every time he says woke
What happened to "facts don't care about your feelings?" 

Call it politicization all you want but sea levels don't care about your retirement communities.
That kind of ignorance should disqualify any political candidate at every level much less the president.
Yet insurance rates in his state are 4x anyone else.  He also got 3.9 million in campaign funds from them.  He profits off the cousin fucking meth addicted morons in his state.
As a Brit it feels like the US and UK are in a deathmatch to produce the dumbest most cynical politicos and it feels like we're level pegging at the moment.

&#x200B;

EDIT: with one caveat - the american death fetish with guns wouldn't happen in the UK.
Huh, I kinda forgot he was also a climate change denying moron.
It costs this guy nothing to be quiet and let other people literally work to save the planet for human life. In fact, he could make billions feeding solar energy to the nation if he worked on building a national smart grid starting with Florida solar. He'd be a legend.
 
But no.
 He wants to actively be a caveman. So weird.
My speeding ticket was “politicization of law” what a joke.
Weather and climate are two different things…
“‘I’ve always rejected the politicisation of the weather,’ Mr DeSantis said.”

The crazy thing is I actually vehemently agree with this statement, but for completely different reasons than he’s saying it.
Of course, he leaves out the fact that it was the conservatives who politicized it for their own personal gain.
climate change had been a victim of ‘politicisation’ by fucking Republicans.
Harvard and Yale graduate. Not a chance he believes this. He knows full well and good about climate change. This is pure pandering to the most uneducated, uninformed of his party.

And it's pathetic.
This fucker wants to kill us all. He's willing to drive us all off a cliff with him at the wheel, for his personal Presidential aspirations.
If it wasn't for religious conservatives holding us back, the human race would be on fucking Alpha Centauri by now.
This man can not be president 😵‍💫
Miami had a huge bond issuance to deal with the effects of climate change, but sureeee, nothing to see here. 

I think the fed government should not send funds to these states when natural disasters happen.

My state has a new trumpy governor who’s anti socialism of all kinds.. until our Capitol city got hit by a tornado then she wanted the fed government to foot 100% of the bill. Sarah Huckabee sanders, go fuck yourself.
OMG! Please tell me you’re not so dumb to vote for this  knucklehead! 

I’m Canadian. I actually don’t give a shit who you vote in, but for shit sakes! You guys have some of the most in-bread, stupid people vying for a leadership roll in your country

They think they’re Christians, they think they’re smart. The rest of the world, we’re watching you and if you do it again, you’ll be part of history, the end of the USA. Nobody will ever take you serious again. You’ll be right up there with Russia. 

That would be very sad, but we’d get over it, you won’t!
His state is losing land to the ocean way faster than most.
He needs to be asked over and over about sea levels and Miami.  There is no way to spin it.  Miami has 20 years.  Does he understand that is also climate change?
“The yachts just rise a little higher no bigs.”
You mean like when they said hurricanes were caused by gay marriage or whatever it was that week?
It's just "woke" weather. Just outlaw it.
The Florida Archipelago does have a nice ring to it. Invest now.
Says the guy who is politicizing everything in his state and turning it into a cesspool.
They need to stop asking candidates of they "believe in climate change" in presidential debates and start asking them if they *understand* it.
I hate this fucking guy
Tell it to India who's having 112F since last month. And their monsoon season is late
Anyone wanna show this clown the current flood insurance situation and projections for Florida?
Don’t Look Up!
A state that's been hit by 18 major hurricanes since 2004 and damages of over $450 BILLION dollars...Hey Desaster..shut the hell up boy.
That's a pretty bold statement from a man whose states bedrock is mostly comprised of sandstone...
Part of me can’t wait for Florida to be under water to prove his arrogance, the other part of me feels ashamed. Fucking asshole.
This comment says a lot about Desantis but it also says a lot about elon musk. Wtf is the would be savior of humanity doing supporting a climate denier? More to the point, why is musk supporting the Republican party that is pro fossil fuel?
Said a fucking hurricane dependent asshole while he was "touring" OTHER STATES on MY FUCKING DIME when a very signifigant portion of his state was submerged by a day of rain. Add it to the list.

And yes. When I capitalize I am FUCKING YELLING!!!
Makes me happy Florida homeowners are being hit with some of the most expensive home insurance ever cause of climate change.
Current Florida retirees are stuck in the ‘Clinton-Benghazi-climate-scientist-hoaxes-lazy immigrants’ era, but yeah. Old people with money are largely crotchety republicans ‘cuz Jeebus hates divorce and staying miserably married kept their insurance and 401(k)s active.  We can pretty much blame the Bible for everything bad in America… including DeSantis.
We CANNOT have this dumbass in office. This guy is the don’t look up President when there’s an asteroid coming right for us
The only words DeSantis has are:

Woke & Agenda

That’s it! And he’s incredibly incompetent like his friend Elon.
Except weather is not climate. Ducking moron graduated from Swamp University.
Being deliberately and provocatively ignorant will get you elected in Florida but surely it's not a good look for President. And then you remember it worked for Trump.
It's been one day and his campaign is already exhaustingly stupid.
They said the same thing about vehicle exhaust emissions. “Wah, it’ll cost more” yeah and the next generation of kids won’t have asthma. Ridiculous

And you can see downtown L.A.
"Hey kids, it's your old friend Ron DeSantis here. I just wanted to let you know that your future doesn't mean jack shit to me." That's literally all I hear.
Can't wait for Florida citizens to become climate refugees, where it'll be the responsibility of the rest of us to treat them better than they ever treated anybody.
Weather isn’t Climate
I’m really surprised he didn’t describe it as “weaponisation of weather”
...and I thought Trump was dangerously ignorant.
DeathSantis is condemning his own state to death.  What a piece of shit.  Next he's gonna tell you he cares about the children.
Bro I fucking hate it here
DeSantis is a fucking chode.
So Ronnie doesn't know the difference between weather and climate. He's just not woke yet.
I know the bar is low to be president these days, but can we at least get someone who understands scientific facts. If someone argues against facts right in front of them we should deem them unfit for office.
Translation: “The energy sector, and their lobbyist give me money to lie about this.”
Politicizing books = ok

Politicizing sexuality = ok

Politicizing women’s reproductive rights = ok

Politicizing an assured but avoidable existential threat = bad?

Now we know why Mickey Mouse is kicking his ass.
Florida is like one of the first states to be completely underwater. That’s crazy.
The worst thing about this guy is he's actually really smart and there is almost no chance he doesn't actually believe in climate change. He's just lying because he thinks it'll make morons more likely to vote for him.
Let’s wait for when the ocean really starts politicizing Florida.
Politicize the weather? Says the guy who has politicized people’s genitalia and sexual freedom. Ron DeSatan can pound sand.
why is it that every moron conservative can't distinguish literal fucking science from what hurts their delicate feelings?
Trump brought politics into health and killed millions. DeSantis obviously wants to top that with climate change related natural disasters.

Ron "Florida is under water" DeSantis for President.
Omg climate change is woke
Let’s see how many unpopular opinions he can promote..
I’m surprised he didn’t call it woke weather.
I mean, even if Florida is going underwater, all the people living there can just sell their homes and move right? Right Ben????? RIIIGHT?!?!?!?!?!

fucking /s obviously
Don’t look up
Can’t wait to hear this psycho’s explanation for when southern Florida is submerged in rising ocean.
If Simpsons needed a republican character it would be this guy
Isn’t Miami stinking.
What exactly is his end game? Do people crave power that badly they would literally watch the world burn for it? I am truly flabbergasted.
He knows it’s happening, that’s why he’s trying to move north
I was inclined to call him a fucking moron because Florida is literally sinking, but he doesn’t give a shit about Florida. He’d kill every last one of them if it got him the White House.
Isn’t he the governor of 1 state most affected by climate change? And the war against drag…. Has he been too South Beach before? Literally home of the greatest drag shows… I’m confused how this state and it’s people exist.
Yeah, Florida will find out soon enough that climate change is real enough
Meanwhile his state is being engulfed by rising sea levels and homes in Florida are becoming uninsurable thanks to damage from super weather in the form of floods and hurricanes.
The majority of Americans believe in climate change. President Biden should have an easy path next year and then we can all rally behind Gavin Newsom when he runs in 2028. The country is in good hands. Florida must do better. It’s insane that the governor of a state that is one of the epicenters of climate change is a climate denier
We are literally in the “Don’t Look Up” timeline
Please, just fucking disappear from the face of this planet Ronald. Piece of shit.
Lol. Fuck you Florida. Can’t wait for you to sink.
Funny, he didn’t seem to mind the last time he got federal disaster aid after a hurricane.
*sponsored by Exxon Mobil*
Imbecile
I can’t deal with these people anymore
Do you hear that, remaining insurance companies in Florida?
He’s going so all in with the crazies in maga that he stands no chance to get the middle ground vote if he does win the primary. 

This guy’s campaign is a joke.
So who here is ready to deny Florida FEMA protection for hurricane season this year? I mean, we all have to tighten our belts.
And DeSantis is politicization of idiocy.
Yes, you got them! It is a conspiracy. Temperatures world wide decided to rise to support the woke agenda. I mean, just look at rainbows, it’s very clear evidence that the sun is a pro gay liberal!
Harvard wasted their time on this dumbass
Don’t you hate it when these dumb-dumbs weaponize stupidity?
Dessntis is a moron who is attempting to politicize weather
There’s no poverty either, just politicization of people having to work 2 jobs just to feed their kids.
America is the most stupid country that ever existed
No more FEMA or Red Cross aid for you then
Fucking dumbass.
Ugh😳
Was he bounced on his head as a child?!