For several years, I've been planting drought tolerant perennials around my property. It will help reduce erosion and help feed local birds and bugs.


The preps aren't just for people and pets. It's for the future. 
American resiliency has an excellent video on regions that will fair better with climate change. Thankfully I'm already living close-ish to one, but if I wasn't, I'd be strongly eyeing moving to the northeast...


Edit: a word
The artic circle was on fire 2 years ago and conservatives still said climate change is a hoax because there is snow in the winter in some places. 

The sad thing to me is that those people will mostly escape the consequences of the problems they cause - their children and grandchildren will not. But they'll be dead before climate change really destroys the planet.

These same people are still sitting around pretending covid was just a cold and that millions of people didn't die from it. 

I really wonder what the rural/urban differences will be as far as climate change issues. Access to water is going to be a huge factor, and I think rural people will be in much better shape there. City people depend on reservoirs and things like that, while rural folks can use rainwater catchment and private wells and whatnot. 

And what makes me far more angry is that the corporations who are causing climate change by not adapting will actually *benefit greatly* from it by selling us air filters and will buy up the entire water supply to sell back to us at rates only some of us will be able to afford. 

And Russia, who is one of the largest sources of climate disinfo, will benefit by having more arable land after Siberia and all that area warms up some. 

The governments and corporations will not take care of us. They are actively working against us. The people of the world have a very short time to get together and truly do something about this. It will take something like WWIII to do it, but this war won't be nation vs. nation as much as it will be philosophy vs. philosophy. 

Though it does appear we are finding out the answer to the Fermi Paradox, I guess.
Big agree. To elaborate - (mega doom post ahead)

People say we're addicted to oil but they still don't really internalize it. *We are a hydrocarbon civilization*. Full stop. If aliens visited us, that's probably the first thing they'd understand about our world. That it's our primary energy source and it's also the primary thing that goes into our food in the form of mechanical energy, fertilizers, pesticides, and plastic (preservation). 

Every head of state knows they are running a *petrostate*. They know this. Our entire civilization is wholly organized around the utilization of fossil fuels; our energy and transport systems, our agriculture, all other shipping and industry, all our urban areas and personal transport infrastructure, all of our economics and politics. And even all of our culture, yes, all of it. It all revolves around fossil fuels or at least requires the continued continued stable extraction and use.

So. 

We are going to burn every last molecule of hydrocarbon we can extract. When the EROI of oil hits the floor (won't be long now) it'll simply be de-commoditized and declared a *strategic resource* by all nations. My opinion is that the current rumblings in Ukraine and Mideast are a prelude to the energy wars. But anyway, you can guarantee that all that carbon IS going into the atmosphere. But eventually it won't be used in our cars and trucks; the last drop of fuel will go un an unmanned B2 Bomber. All that polymer resin WILL be created and eventually end up in the dirt - where it doesn't rot, it simply gets smaller. 

World leaders have done literally nothing to curb the use of hydrocarbons, and why would they? To "stop using fossil fuels" is to completely change (some would say 'destroy') the current society and replace it with something else. Which would mean new power structures with new people in charge. There is literally no incentive for people in power to change; if doing so dethrones them anyway, why not just ride the wave until it all comes down? 

As OP has noted, anywhere declared a climate refuge is a temporary one. If you're interested in hard data, check out The Limits of Growth (30 year update). This in-depth study predicted agricultural and industrial collapse starting right about now, and when they revisited it, the model held up. It's now been almost fifty years on and the model is frighteningly accurate. They modeled out four main scenarios and the nastiest one (RCP 8.5) allows for +5 to C over pre-industrial norms. That's a world with no plankton, no pollinators, nothing. You won't even be able to grow food outdoors. Guess which model the current data aligns to? Yes, the nasty one. 

Probably billions will die. And if you think the country that built the world's craziest military is just gonna be chill and die quietly, you got another thing coming. Some things you should think about preparing for

1. How to grow food indoors, with alternative fertilizers, and hand-pollination methods. It's counter-intuitive but the primary challenge is light indoors. 
2. Communal and familial living arrangements, completely off grid, with mutual or shared power governance
3. How to shield future generations from debt peonage, compulsory labor, and military conscription
4. Living without technology such as running water and electricity.
I have been making (well, trying to make) the argument for a long time -- climate change is coming. What can YOU do? Recycle to Kingdom Come. It won't help. But you know what will? Build your own seed vault. Join an heirloom seed society. Remember that episode of King of the Hill where Hank and Peggy find a food co-op and try the tomatoes. "Taste these tomatoes!" "Oh, Hank, what are you talking about? Tomatoes don't have any flavor." 

Grow some things. Harvest the seeds. Share them with others. If you're really adventurous, see if there are any species you could help. Do you keep a goldfish tank? Maybe set up a separate tank to raise something that's endangered. 

I feed the birds. Every day, out goes a giant scoop of seeds into the feeder. I'm not saving the Dodo. I'm feeding titmice, sparrows, juncos, blue jays. That's what you do. Aim for keeping what you can preserve going until enough people realize how bad it's become. THEN everyone will want to join in.
Anecdotally, I have noticed climate change where I live (PNW USA). I've lived here for 70 years (with occasional short term deployments to Alaska/etc.) and I feel that is long enough to note the change in climate & weather here - e.g., for a LONG time, the running joke in Oregon was about the amount of rain in western Oregon during the summer. 

About 14 years ago I moved back to Oregon from Seattle and I have noticed the dry summers - now we often go 90 days or more with no more than a trace of rain, whereas before it was a 50/50 bet as to whether July 4th weekend would be clear & sunny or rained out. There were jokes about rain in summer "yes it is raining, but it is a warm rain" (which BTW, it *wasn't* warm rain) and so on. 

It should not be news to anybody how the western USA is now plagued with forest fires. It wasn't unheard of when I was younger, to have a forest fire here, even some large ones, but the number and size of multiple fires ***is*** unusual. Climate Change certainly has played a part in that (along with past forestry practices - which are changing).

Droughts are an issue in most of the PNW, even on the west side of the Cascades (where it used to be very unusual). Another issue is water shortages - mostly due to much increased water usage (populating increase and ag usage), but also due to climate change impacting snowpack and reservoir storage.
Can't stop thinking about this

https://preview.redd.it/720tkfulzfce1.jpeg?width=1080&format=pjpg&auto=webp&s=29de4d1ccf6ec88f5e29bf5f6fb9c0f13ded424a
Climate is so much more complicated than just changing weather patterns. I’ve noticed in the last couple of decades less birds,insects and various wildlife just in my area. They are probably migrating to more favorable environments and it’s like they know something we don’t know.
Even if you don’t believe in climate change, or think moving out of disaster prone areas is too expensive or has its faults….insurance companies are going to simply stop insuring your house if they determine it to be in an unsafe zone. Then what?
I’m in South Central Alaska and the climate is perfect. Not too hot in summer and winter is more temperate (probably due to climate change) and I have my own water well. I have enough land for animals and a nice garden. Planning paid off for my family. No worries as salmon and big game are abundant. Good luck to all.
The endgame is safe groundwater access in the least populated area possible.
The earth has never been safe. I live in one of the most disaster prone areas of the country (central Oklahoma) and I’ve made many preparations for living here. Tornado shelter, wood burning fireplace, electric/wood/gas cooking, guns and ammunition, food and water supply, buried electric lines, generator, tools.

I also have a huge network of people to rely on in a crisis.

I think it’s best just to prepare for the area you live. Migrating is difficult and expensive and may present you with challenges that you don’t know to prepare for.
[deleted]
I believe you are correct.

I don't know why the world continued with the annual COP (Conference of the Parties) meetings after 2023.  The Paris Agreement at COP 21 in 2015 got people excited.  I was not convinced.   When it was held in Dubai in 2023, it was clear to me that no one was going to carry through on that agreement. 

The wealthy countries will stop even pretending to do anything soon.  Some already have.  I doubt the USA will remain in anything having to do with NATO.  Most countries have too many issues themselves.  The island countries and low-lying areas not in the developed world will not be saved. The impact, such as what is happening in California and many other places, will continue.

Given that the incoming USA President is threatening other countries while California burns and the east coast is being thrashed yet again by winter storms tells me that Americans should expect no help regarding "the weather."

There are areas that will benefit from climate change. Our growing season has expanded by almost 3 weeks in the 28 years I have been living here.  There are many other areas that are, or will quickly become, unable to sustain life.  Up until about 5 years ago, I could not find information on where those areas are.  Now it's easy.  I'm clearly not the only one who thinks that being in a relatively "safe" zone is the best thing they can do for their survival and that of their loved ones.  

As usual, it will come down to awareness, stamina, luck, money, and timing.  May the odds be ever in your favour.

If you are in the USA, move to the areas surrounding the Great Lakes, no further south than Detroit.  That is the best advice I have.
I agree with your take. I live in the mountains of NC and experienced a devastating natural disaster a few months back with Helene. Hurricanes shouldn't be strong enough to make it this far inland and cause floods in the mountains.  

I have replied to people posting here from Florida tht I dont see how you could ever be prepared for anyhting in that state.
I hate to say you're right, but yeah. The first warnings were over 100 years ago. The time to act was 50 years ago. Now we're past the point of no return and all you can do is mitigate. 

And what states are people in the US moving to? Florida, Texas, California,  Georgia, North Carolina. Why? Land is cheap there. Why is it cheap? Because the first 4 are disasters in the making: water scarcity, earthquakes, fires, hurricanes. Only N. Carolina makes a lick of sense. I'd argue that a lot of people have already been priced out of the better choices, and that's going to get worse. People are moving to places where property values are going to decline, and they'll be stuck. Many already are.

Based on the last US election, many US people simply don't care about this issue, and now bad policies are going to get set in concrete. And since the US isn't leading on this, many other countries have decided they don't have to either.

What can you do if you're stuck in place? Figure out your risks. Maybe it's wildfires. Clad your house in concrete. Maybe it's drought. Graywater systems and aggressive water conservation are all you've got, so do them. Hurricanes? A house made of sticks on a hill is better than anything on a flood plain. And invest in waterproof storage for anything you care about. 

Stop prepping for stupid stuff. People aren't coming for your guns. But raindrops, dry winds and burning embers are coming to a place near you, and the ripple effects will become dramatic.
I completely agree. I gave up on people doing anything about it when my city became overrun by SUVs and pickup trucks in the late 90s. 

I work as a wildland & structural firefighter/paramedic and I’ve seen the change in fire behavior in my career. I assume I will be working when my house is under threat, so I’ve mitigated so it will survive most probable disasters. I’ve built in enough water storage to give me a month of cushion watering my garden even if we go without any rain and were under water restrictions. 

Ironically, two summers ago I lost my car to a hail storm that totaled it in an area that has never had hail like that in recorded history. One never knows what’s next, so prepare for the worst.
I get it man, I'm out in Europe, but it's the same mind set, people don't really care.
I know technically the climate has always been changing since there was a climate, but it's the rate of change that's worrying and that people have relatively short lives in the grand scheme of things, somit will effect many generations before it's balances out.
We moved to the Midland and up fairly high but on a plateau, so we have plenty of natural water, forests and began a very small homestead in a small community.
The goal is try be a self sufficient as possible but it will take some time.
What do you mean the Midwest is expected to become desert like?
American Resiliency is an excellent vlog on YT with solid data-based info about regional shifts due to climate change, and how to adapt (or where to move).
I truly feel modern humans and human nature are not capable of addressing such a big global, multigenerational problem that requires some individual sacrifice.
EVERYONE wants climate change addressed,, but they want someone else to do all the heavy lifting 

No one wants to reduce there lifestyle, give up that car, put in volunteer hours etc,,
Climate Havens are a myth. Obviously some areas are a little better than others… If you live on the coast, it’s probably smart to move inland…but no place is safe from climate change. If the gulf stream fails, all bets are off.
It’s very difficult to predict, asheville north Carolina was considered safe place, away from the coastal hurricanes and high altitude and look what happened there. Look at singapore this week, whole island country (one of the blue zone cities on earth) is having flash floods and mudslides. 
You are also not factoring in other issues like economy which created problems in Buffalo. Sri Lanka had civil unrest due to food shortages etc. the coast near japan has fish contaminated from radioactive waste and heavy metals, plus they have earthquakes. 

Even if entire humanity takes climate change seriously from tomorrow, its hard to predict where these disasters will shape up for next few decades.

The climate migration will definitely be a trend for next two decades but its hard to find the perfect place. Another thing is, whats ideal for you is not ideal for all, buffalo winters are harsh for some, 100 degree tropicals are more habitable for some.
I'd always considered Anerica's New England area as a haven for at least a couple more decades. I had a thought recently that another dust bowl in the MidWest would ruin that. 
What are the thoughts on America's Great NorthWest?
I incense sooo many people posting simple facts on various social media sites and youtube channels, not even arguing. 

Yeah I have been prepping for climate collapse for awhile now…
I usually finish by telling them , “I Hope YOU’RE right! I GENUINELY WANT TO BE WRONG BUDDY!”
that usually makes them silent , sometimes a couple more ad-hominem because they lack any facts beyond emotional knee-jerk responses & easily disproven talking points from big oil & gas
The grass isn't always greener on the other side.  Every place has its issues when it comes to climate and natural disaster.
I’m on the west coast in the middle of cali inland a bit. My street will flood. We will also have drought. But my biggest fear is fires and tsunamis so I’m happy to stay here and build my garden. We will solve our problems. So far, the flooding has never reached us but I’m thinking of making a tree house for an emergency. With regards to drought, we have our own well and the water table is quite high so I think we’ll be ok. I don’t want to move.
I live in southwest Texas so we're prone to hurricanes. By 2100, it'll be ridiculously hot but still bearable to live in. I've been all across the states and I'm convinced the Chicago-Milwaukee area by the Great Lakes is the place to be. I might start looking to secure some land there.
LA Times reports the main water reservoir was empty since February 2024. Firefighters were drawing from 3 backups that are much smaller (1M gallon capacity each): "A reservoir in the Palisades that holds 117 million gallons of water was offline this month for previously scheduled maintenance. It was empty when the Palisades fire exploded."

If "taking climate change seriously" is allowed to involve keeping "enough" water on hand to fight fire, may cities continue  to do so where LA water dept. failed.
What do you think happens when Mexico is uninhabitable?

Next: Texas and Arizona. The south of the USA. 

You think you being north will save you, when 20 million people are going to choose to go north or die? Lol.

Canada will be the ones building a wall, not the USA.
The best thing you can do when you have your property is learn about permaculture. One of the keystones to permaculture is water management. Every climate and location is unique but the water management you should be concerned with is having it move as slowly through your property as possible and alter your land in such a way as to increase its capacity to store and retain water for as long as possible. Good luck
Wait until we have huge forest fires then even the north won't be safe
We packed up and moved from Salt Lake City to Minneapolis, Minnesota in 2022 for this very reason.
I live in a small western NY city about an hour away from Buffalo. The climate here has been radically changing for years. I think this is a very safe area to stay. However, the changes are becoming challenging because the native plants are changing. Much wetter at certain times of the year... trees becoming moldy and diseased... much hotter in the summer. There is not enough snow in the winter to replenish the dry summer....I'm experimenting with my food planting to try and adapt. So far, I've been having pretty good luck. Fortunately, we live in a low-lying area with a lot of natural water sources. I think that's what might save this area...for a while anyway.
I agree with this but circumstance seen right for me. I don’t think we’re ever getting a serious response under the current economic and political system (Dem or GOP). My wife and I are doing what we can to prep for ourselves but we also have elderly parents to look after. Mine are here in Washington, and mom’s in early stages of dementia. Hers are in Illinois and at least have family back there. But it all limits what we can really do, barring SHTF and we have to save ourselves.
Move to Buffalo, along with 4 or 5 million other people. 

That will turn out well.
Yes. We often don't even get any snow that "sticks" until January...not normal. I remember snow all the time at Halloween as a kid...and certainly deep snow in November. Rarely does it last for a week now. It's kind of creepy actually 😬
Spare a thought for Australia. We have coast or dessert with very little in between. I’m in a cyclone (hurricane) area. We have been lucky for a very long time but sooner or later will cop a cat 5 and that’s going to be devastating. Our homes are built to withstand those but all the old houses and trees and coral reefs will be destroyed. If you go south to the Gold Coast they are getting tornados and super cell storms that do as much if not more damage than our cyclone areas. The cost of insurance is already unsustainable. Then if you go further south to Canberra and Sydney and Melbourne the surrounding bush and national parks have had the worst bushfires on records back in 2020. And also the worst floods. I don’t know that anywhere in Australia is ‘safe’. Maybe Tasmania? Currently in a heat wave this week so if it’s not one thing it’s another.
I am in MI and it really is a climate oasis.......I am constantly watching how extreme hot and cold effects my friends and family in other states and just shake my head.  Those big lakes temper extremes pretty well.
Michigan's UP is amazing if you're up for the cold. Land is cheap and there's a ton of it, moving water and a good number of the people up there are pretty much off grid, it would be a good place to find community.
Asheville person here.

Don’t assume anywhere is safe. We were widely thought to be a safer location. And that wasn’t incorrect. We got walloped with OUR 1000 year event. 

Everywhere has a 1000 year event. It would be better to prepare for it than convince yourself you’re in a safe location.
I concur.  We moved to the Rochester, NY area for this exact reason.
Moving is exactly what you're supposed to do, doesn't matter what your assets and resources are, if you live in a bad spot you have to leave. That's what Grapes of Wrath was about, by the way. Don't be afraid to change your location.
Mel Gibson's house burning to the ground while recording an episode with Joe Rogan in which he's denying climate change. It's almost poetic, it feels like we deserve this.
I keep telling my friends this. They just don’t want to face reality. They’re still buying in Vegas, Houston, LA and Miami. I bought 6 acres in upstate NY.
You are 100% correct. Not enough will be done to avoid it and we must plan as if it’s inevitable, because it is.
I care more about all the animal populations we are decimating.
OP made several "main points". A lot of folks have focused on the migration one. I would focus on the "we aren't going to fix the problem until it causes a disaster we have prep for" (That isn't a direct quote, just paraphrasing what I recall). I am sad to say that I agree. As things stand now, too many of the folks that can vote are woefully ignorant of science and disdain it. And it looks like folks in power are leaning into it. The climate will continue to change. We must prepare to survive it. We must prepare our children to survive it.
Good post and warning.  The UN has effectively said we’re past the tipping point.  I expect things will get progressively worse now and we’ll see more and more bad weather events.
100%z Had the exact same thought two days ago! Real estate in northern states will go up in price. Yes it’s cold and there are winter weather impacts as well but overall more manageable natural disasters that aren’t complete setbacks similar to coastlines and deserts. 

But, I will say, I will never lose hope in fighting for the future. I don’t care if it sounds crazy but we really should still strive to make a lasting change for the next generations. I’ll keep believing it’s possible cause I think otherwise we’re letting these assholes win.
I moved to the “climate haven” of Asheville NC. In October l almost lost everything in floods and mud slides. You’re not safe anywhere. Don’t fool yourself
Lots of good prices in upstate NY but the winters scare me.
People rich and poor move all the time
They should NOT rebuild in some of those area's in Cali. It will just happen again. At some point.
Wait till they start climate engineering. There won’t be anywhere that is safe from that.
Biggest fresh water reserves on the planet...I think it's only going up from here...
Climate is always changing, and we can't change it.
I moved to a spot that did well in the last warming and the last cooling.
Good points, but the Midwest states that touch a Great Lake really don’t have a drought problem. MW Farmers not in that watershed may have problems
There is nowhere you can move that will not be affected by climate change. Upstate NY had 16 tornadoes this past summer that destroyed hundreds of homes. Severe drought throughout autumn, to the point that we’re getting wildfires now too. Coldest January in over a decade with blizzards. Scorching hot summers with flooding. Running away to one area is not going to save you.

We need people everywhere, where they already live, advocating for forest management (culling invasives, planting local species, controlled burns for reduced wildfire risk & damage), composting (improved soil health which restores nutrients in grown food, absorbs tons of water, can build natural flood barriers), replacing their lawn with native wildflowers & ground cover, banning pesticides, setting up rainwater catchment & filtration, & banning fracking, dams, & companies like Nestle stealing water.

We need people everywhere connecting with their local communities to form mutual aid networks, supporting & expanding their libraries to include repair workshops, tool libraries, community gardens, fridges, clothing swaps & exchanges.

The problem with climate catastrophe is it’s global. That means we fight it globally, everywhere. Running away to hide is not going to solve anything or keep you safe. Safety is found by sharing resources & skills within communities
My work had what they call a disruption summit. Climate came as a topic and several popular builders, city and county local govt people were present, electricians, and insurance providers were present. I asked two questions, what are they doing to build better weather tolerant. buildings and homes and what would they recommend to home owners,  The questions flew over their heads and thats when I knew it was up to me to better prepare myself. The city and county office itself lacked and had any foresight in recognizing and amending code to build better homes.
I'm probably going to get run over by a mile long train of fury for this, but I really don't understand why people have kids these days. The world they'll have to live in 50 or more years from now is going to be a nightmare. I keep telling my friends they better give their kids all the survival skills, cause those little cuties are gonna need them.
Wife and I are relocating to Michigan this year, plan to stockpile land for homesteads for our people to follow. It’s cheap now but that value may skyrocket to where our children couldn’t afford it if we didn’t.
To be honest it’s hard to really care when there is China and India.  And they ain’t changing.
Midwest turning into a desert? 😅 maybe avoid smoking crack before going on Reddit
Agree with this, but relating to the LA fires alone, you haven’t accounted for the fact that the state leadership has refused to do forest management which controls fire spread and has re-routed water that is easily directed down to CA away from the state entirely. And last, but not least, there’s arson that uses climate change as its cover. But, overall yes climate change is real and is a huge problem!
Republican governors ignore it but gladly take disaster money resulting from it. Funny how that works
Live in the Blue Ridge Mountains.  Where would we go?
While I understand where you’re coming from, India, China, Russia contribute far more to climate change than any other country. When the US buys oil from Venezuela, we are buying very dirty oil with no concern for the environment. It is cleaner to produce our own oil. I expect to be downvoted.
Where is the info your getting your safe zone from? I was under different assumptions.
You described the future of the Midwest and the Southwest the same way with different words
Most human beings worldwide live on less than $10 daily and want to earn more in order to meet basic needs, while the few who earn more are counting on them to do so because their own income and finances are dependent on increasing sales of goods and services.

And most are earning more:

https://www.bbc.com/news/business-22956470

which is why energy and resource use per capita worldwide has been rising.

This is the likely reason why climate change will never be taken seriously, together with peak oil and the threat of a resource crunch.
Where did you hear the Midwest is going to be a desert?
I've been actively seeking work as north as possible. Hopefully i make my way into Canada soon.
Yep, moved to the NY Catskills a year back for this exact reason. We aren’t wealthy, but we’re smart enough to see the writing on the wall and wanted to get in before home prices exploded so we could get some acreage. Bought a little 10 acre farm for under $250k (we did need to put about $50k into the place to bring it up to our standards, but all told came in well under $300k), and the house is all-electric with a spring, new well, and creek on the property. Feeling luckier by the day - especially in light of what’s happening in the U.S. west and south. Get in while you can, peeps.
I’ve been planting hardy natives and perennials, and using mulch to preserve soil moisture.  I’ve tried growing Amaranth; it did well but the winnowing was a lot of work
You know when we lose we all lose. If it's bad fix it. There is no avoiding this. In fact if you try to swivel out of this you will get swiveled.
It's hard for a single government to control a worldwide issue and it is questionable what they could do even without passing off populations. 

That said, disasters will happen no matter what. That's what this sub is for - have foresight and plan and discuss it.
I take it you haven't done your first winter in the area. Those squalls coming in off the lakes need to be experienced to be believed. They are very survivable, but utterly amazing at the same time. I have lived in both Buffalo and Rochester.  Those squalls make a New England blizzard look pretty light weight.

(Agree on the climate change. By the time it is affecting what the meaderthals are grabbing with their fist and shoving into their mouths, it will be far too late.)
Humans are reactive species, not proactive sadly.

For me (Midwest state), it's actually projected to have higher intensity rainfalls during the spring. So generally, I am starting to account for thst by implementing permaculture concepts in my little lot (perennials, trees, and swales). It helps out wildlife as well.... probably thenmain reasons why I'm doing it.

I feel like summer droughts will become the norm, so i am producing water storage off of my roof and will eventually switch to warmer climate crops when the time comes. Even had thoughts of an unferground cistern in the future.

I now take into account of what I plant. They are usually drought tolerant plants. Im getting rid of my water-heavy invasives. Most midwest plain flowering and brush species are very very drought tolerant.
Politicians won’t ever take climate change seriously until there are waves lapping up against the steps of Congress.
I live in Las Vegas Nevada, not so many natural disasters here. But last summer it was 120ish degrees for a week straight. That's never happened before. I cannot imagine what it will be like in 10 years. Planning on getting the fuck out in the next 5.
Waiting for Northern Michigan to become a tropical paradise!
Yep.  That's my perspective.
We moved back to AZ from OR two years ago for family, family is a disaster and was reminded why I originally left. Husband and I just started looking for land elsewhere so this thread has been enlightening. I had a large garden in OR and miss it terribly. I put in two 4x8 raised beds here and am learning to grow in zone 9B while we figure out our exit strategy. We want to secure land now before we’re out-priced. Need land we can put a tiny home or similar type structure, which seems like may be a challenge. Anyway, great thread.
I bought property in a state that usually tops the list of best states to survive climate change. It's already getting harder to find good property there just in the three years that I've owned mine. Fertile soil, water on the property, mature hardwoods, wild game galore. I'll be fine,best of luck to everyone else.
For those of you who are not from the Carolinas, you need to understand that the areas you think are safe may not be safe at all. All of us here never once put ‘thousand-year flood of entire region’ and ‘north carolina mountains’ together in the same thought. I thought of the mountains as the safe place. I now see that nowhere is truly safe. True prepping is owning a secret helicopter to escape sudden landslides, a secret boat to escape sudden floods, a secret… firesafe vehicle??? To escape sudden fire, a secret underground bunker to escape sudden tornadoes (though those are always sudden), secretly build your house out of bridge pylons in case of sudden tree felling, and stock each of those places with 2 months’ worth of supplies and a tiny escape vehicle. 

We are all going to die. Prepare yourself by building up your INNER resources to know how to withstand suffering.
I'm all for taking care of your property and being more natural. Problem is since I was a kid we were hit with so many the world is ending next year, ozone, y2k, captain planet etc that it just became crying wolf. The planet has natural shifts. We may or may not be accelerating that. We can ban straws but sell peeled fruit in plastic containers. Look at the wild fires in Cali. How much pollution is that from not managing the woods? 

My old town had a tidal rive run through it. Every year for who knows how long it was dredged. Some environmentalist protested for some type of thing spawning. So sediment and debris built up. When i was dry season there was fires. Wet season flooding. After superstorm sandy 300 homes are permanently abandoned. And money always wins
So many of us think of climate change in terms of weather. For example, the late Senator Jim Inofe brought a snowball to congress to prove climate disruption wasn't real.  But it will affect us in other ways as well. 

Mosquitoes and ticks are on the move because the climate conditions that favor them and their hosts are changing. And they are bringing all their favorite diseases with them. Plus there is always melting permafrost layers which may contain all kinds of goodies humans may or may not have a defense against. 

It's a good reminder that prep isn't just about things we can control but maybe even things we know nothing about. There is never a gurantee.
I saw a documentary few years ago that showed a town on the coast or island in Florida that is literally sinking into the sea, and people who live there are still climate change deniers.
Please don’t come this way
This is where I’ve been for awhile. Moved out of the city about 5 years ago because I saw the writing on the wall. I’m amazed so many people aren’t seeing that no one is going to be doing shit to help you and you’re going to need to rely on your own wits and choices, and this isn’t some distant point in the future, it’s now.
At this point I’ll take my chances with the disasters lol. I just lived through Helene in WNC in one of the hardest hit places and I honestly had a great time because I was prepared, and I’d rather deal with natural disasters than droves of unpredictable people
You are correct.
I’ve been planning for this as well.  No place will remain untouched.  *However* some have greater resilience potential than others, or will only have to face one type of disaster, rather than several simultaneously
The media is owned by billionaires that have too much too lose if there's change. It's thst simple. That's the problem, has been and likely always will be. They're never going to report the truth.
So you're gonna claim diverting water away from fire resources didn't play a part here?

And you're also gonna claim banning Forrest management didn't okay a part here lol?

For decades you idiots were told what your nonsense would cause now that it happens omfg it's climate change ignore everything else lol it's disgusting.
I agree. But because it will be a slow lead up. The ice caps won’t melt all at once. It will be atypical storms (where you wouldn’t expect it) or increase in severity. We are the frog in the pot slowly heating up.
Realistically, the world won’t be destroyed, it just may be incompatible with humans thriving.
Lmao
Massive amounts of dry brush on the hillsides with houses built all around and no fire breaks other than roads. Totally global warming or climate change. You do know native Americans used to deliberately set fires to prevent situations like California is facing right?


Somehow I never picked up that Buffalo was in a safe zone. In fact, that's probably the furthest place away from a safe zone that I could think of.