The following submission statement was provided by /u/OpenSustainability:

---

Submission Statement: This is a well written article about a recent meta analysis looking at quantifying carbon emissions in terms of human deaths in the future (order of magnitude estimate).  The full article can be accessed at  https://doi.org/10.3390/en16166074

---

 Please reply to OP's comment here: https://old.reddit.com/r/Futurology/comments/165c74t/scientists_warn_1_billion_people_on_track_to_die/jyd0fhm/
At first I'm imagining 1/8 of the world dying from climate change, but that's not what this is.  They're saying 1 billion deaths, cumulative, over the next 100 years.
[removed]
Step 1: build more nuclear plants
Step 2: close coal plants
Step 3: bitchslap idiots against nuclear power.

Progress.
[removed]
There are *about* 67 million deaths on the planet every year and *about* 65 million births. An increase of 10 million deaths per year across a population of 8 billion people is almost statistically insignificant given the overall population increases in the densest populations in the world - especially in countries like India, China, the US, Indonesia, and Pakistan. 

That isn't to say climate change won't kill a lot of people unnecessarily, but this article is more alarmist than constructive and is ammo for anti-climate change skeptics to use and say "see, it isn't THAT bad."
Like, what the fuck timeline are we in? I was born in 1991 and climate change only became a problem since electric light was introduced in the late 19th century. Why does there always have to be something that threatens us as a species?
I would bet that if there was no climate change 1 billion people would also die in the next 100 years.
8 billion people are on track today with or without climate change
This kind of scaremongering is just gasoline for deniers.
This is a pretty conservative estimate considering the direction we're heading. If you include wars and regional disputes over resources, that number will be significantly higher.
\~67 million people die on Earth every year. It will only take 15 years for a billion people to die.
This is sus considering deaths from cold claims for lives than heat, and we've seen a 40% drop from cold deaths in the last century.
TLDR version: "The United Nations reports that every year, environmental factors take the lives of about 13 million people, and yet it's not clear how many of these deaths are directly or indirectly due to climate change."
"How to lie with statistics" by Darrell Huff ... Amazon $7.27 on paperback.
Eight billion people will be dead in the next 90 years. I’ll be one of them.
Oh so that’s the plan. Let 1/8 of us die off… then there’a less emissions. Brilliant.
climate change doom predictions have been calling for some Armageddon event since the 60s. Gore said the ice caps would have all melted by now. A huge grain of salt is warranted
"Sciencealert" does not sound or seem like a reputable source.
The ultra wealthy: that's a sacrifice I'm willing to make.
Alarmism is counterproductive to combating Climate Change

Edit: Idk about your childhood. Remember back when you were a kid, how adults would use scare tactics to make you obedient or not make bad choices. It worked until you saw through the fear-mongering. That's the problem with manipulating people

Also from a psychological view, to fear climate change is alright. But fear-mongering isn't.

I'm no Jedi, but emotions should not cloud rational constructive judgement
In the future people will die... thanks futurology
Isn’t there overpopulation they all talk about? Sounds like a win win no? /s
Headlines like this is why no one takes this seriously
Average deaths per 24 hours is 150k per day Im just thankful it ain’t me today
Okay but how does one prove they died as a result of climate change
Lots of people will die from accidents, disease, war, murder and old age too.
Scientists Warn 1 Billion People on Track to Die From Geoengineering: ScienceAlert

Fixed, you lunatics!
I'm not a doomer, and I like to stay positive even in catastrophic times, but COVID really showed how the world was going to deal with these kind of overlapping, systemic threats.

And no, I don't mean "it showed individuals are selfish waaaah". What it showed is that the solutions to increasingly frail and unstable systems are basically lost on the ruling class.

In 1945, there was basically an understanding that if you didn't produce your own goods, protect your economy from monopolies, guarantee employment, and drastically limit the ability of banks to speculate, then your society was just as likely to collapse from within as being invaded by foreign enemies. It wasn't that these were strictly moral issues, it's that there was a deep concern among elites to prevent revolution.

 But this attitude of "efficiency" above resilience has rotted out every level of leadership in the West. Taiwan says "no you can't have our semi conductors" and the USA can't produce cars. China said we couldbt have masks. Now India is limiting trade on food. Which, to a nationalist in times of crisis, makes sense. But to a globalist, someone totally alien to how production works and what is necessary to survive catastrophe *on your own*, seems unruly and dangerous. How dare they stop producing our goods??!

People are going to die, and a lot of them. Obviously emissions have to drop fast. But as long as the approach to organizing society is based on some nebulous concept of efficiency and not measurable policies of self reliance and social stability, it may not matter either way.
This planet is a big ecosystem.  And Ecosystem's have ways of countering overpopulation.
jut one billion? I thought it would be closer to 8
I can see Bill Burr smiling from ear to ear right now.
150k people die a day...soooooo Give it time and we'll hit that number naturally
Scientists have previously warned ALL people are on track to die from climate change.
Again, like the pandemic, a whole lot of peeps saying the world would be better with less peeps really have no chill.
don't warn me warn the people who are actually the real problem! ExxonMobil, Shell, BP, Chevron, Cruise Ships, Taylor Swift airplane rides, Nestlé, Amazon, etc etc. Warn them, fine them, make laws against them!
Seeing constant warning signs and reminders yet there's nothing I can do ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯
The sky is falling! The sky is falling!

And we wonder why young people all need therapy.
I grew up in the 70’s and remember climate alarmists saying we were entering a new ice age and it would last for 500 years and billions would die……
A figure perhaps only dwarfed by the number of deaths that would result from implementing too aggressive measures to counter climate change. A conundrum indeed.
[removed]
This math seems like it'd be very easy to manipulate and the modeling would be damn near impossible to calculate. Not saying they'll end up being wrong
\*Rolls eyes\* Remember "Peak Oil?" In 2006 they were telling us we'd all be dead by 2020.
This could be proven with absolute certainty and the vast majority of people wouldn't give a shit until it was actually happening
And even then only if it personally affects them
Yeah but there’s still a lot of profit to be made ravaging the environment
More terrifying than this article is the ultra mega copium in the responses.
Haha that's just the margin of terror - err I mean - error!
All these reminders that we're all going to die are super helpful. I'm sure everyone will read this and decide to act now. Especially all the billionaires.
Unpopular opinions, the decline in births per year is actually wildly good for our planet
All of you will die due to climate change. The over lords have spoken. Do not question our warnings. 100 yrs will occur quickly. We must act now and use the additional taxes we take from you to fight this menace.
The irony here is that every single person will die before this "science" can be verified.

Yah seems legit.
Futurology becomes fan fiction? Get this nonsense off this sub.
Scaremongering stats with no way of measuring. As is the case with most climate change news...
The people responsible won't give a shit about this, they won't be affected. But if economists warn the stock market will crash then you may get some action, if short selling was illegal.
Well, we know at least 8 billion people will die in the next 150 years, so 1 billion from the environment isn't so bad
OMG! Americans must give politicians & political parties who can't fill potholes in their own town or maintain bridges and dams, water lines and sewers, all our money to save World Wide Climate Change!
More people are dying from bad climate change policies than from climate change
remember folks, that billion will be the poorest in our society, the billionaires and millionaires probably won't even break a nail
If there isn't enough food, and the nuclear powers start a war over it...that number could be a lot higher. The political results of climate change are likely to be more deadly than the direct environmental effects.
Lmao whoa Science Alert!!!!!


Remember all the Covid prediction models that totally failed to represent anything close to reality?

Science!
I hope some of them are billionaires but deep down I know it won't be....
You gotta pump those numbers up, those are rookie numbers in this racket.
Global warming is a real problem but I am pretty sure more would die if we immediately stop using all fossil fuels.
Well there’s a sensationalized headline if I’ve ever seen one. 

I’d imagine over the next 100 years we’d actually see 3-4 Billion folks die. Yaknow. Like usual.
Scientists have discovered 99% of all currently living people will die within 120 years. 
This is only caused by people in the west driving cars in citys and cows farting, as previously no people has ever died.
Say some countries do start radical reducing  or even eliminating their carbon emissions. What about the nations that aren't  aboard with that agenda but instead increase their emissions because of the decrease from other countries?
People forget that the reason for this catastrophe is because there are too many people to begin with.
Is this like how everyone who died with covid "died from covid"?
How can people fall for all of this. This is simply not true.
This is a parody of the usual climate alarmism that the news loves to screech about. Dressed up in the same language of consensus with the same reductive CO2 narrative. Energy saves lives, equating current energy expenditure with murdering a billion people is not just disingenuous but outright psychotic.
Approximately 8 billion people are going to die in the span of the next 100 years.
_meanwhile, as of 8/30/2023, 8,045,311,447 on track to die because the were born_
How do the figure this? I’ve seen another study that people born after 1965 shouldn’t expect the same lifespan length as those generations prior. Is that counted in this ‘1 billion will die’? Quite frankly 1 billion seems like a small number considering we are never returning to this stable climate we’ve thrived in
They say they'll be 10 billion by mid century. Everyone of those want a lifestyle like ours, how do you think that will go. 1 billion plenty more than that.
This line of argumentation is just so dumb and it saddens me deeply that to few ppl see through this.

\[we say in 100 years everything will be bad\] -> \[therefore we have to make life harder for 2 billion ppl right now, to prevent our crazy prophecy and save imaginary ppl from the future\]
After 1 billion people have all died from old age, they’ll say “SEE! Told you!”
And Elon + Errol are concerned that we aren't breeding enough.
Climate change is a buzzword, not a real thing in the sense it's described in.  Does climate change?  Sure does.  Are we contributing enough to make any real noticeable influence in the carbon dioxide in the atmosphere?  No chance, but keep up the fear mongering instead of telling the truth.
Sciencealert might wanna go read the science instead of cherrypicking bs.
OooOooHh big scary numbers to get more control over you! Oooo mesa peoples gonna die ooooooOooOo.
Update..
8 billion People on Track to Die Whether or Not the Climate Changes
Let me guess. We must murder a couple hundred million through communist revolution to prevent this disaster.
surely i wont be the 1 in 8, everyone thinks reading this
We really need 2 or 3 billion if we want any chance at actually stopping it
But, but, but... 

A) there's not such thing as climate change...

or

B) there's nothing we can do about climate change...


Or so our Republican overlords would have you believe (referring to US-based people).
25,000 years ago Seattle was covered in 3-4,000’ of ice, but here we are after the warming and melting of all that ice.
Nonsense sensationalism. The population is going to shrink far faster from falling birth rates. And we will still have too many people on earth. Next.
THAT'S THE BIGGEST CROC OF SHIT EVER TO BE SOLD TO THE HUMAN RACE!!!
People will die as they normally do. But extremists will always find a way to blame it on climate change.
far few people  die from weather events now then 100 years ago. Mostly due to better construction and flood management. This appears to be near top climate hysteria.
Government about to mass murder 1 billion people and blame the climate - fixed it for you
But which billion is it going to be? Tune in tonight and now a word from our sponsors.
Urgh. It's articles like these that make it easy for idiots to laugh at climate change.
How is that possible when climate related deaths are on the decline?

Are they anticipating lots of droughts and using those numbers?

Edit - I forgot to mention, I read through the article and it doesn't really explain the specific justifications for the deaths.

The greatest number of climate deaths we see are related to cold exposure, each year. 

Other than massive loss of crops due to droughts, I don't see a significant source of climate related deaths actually increasing over the next 100 years. We may bottom out on deaths per capita, soon. But at the current trend, climate related deaths are down and declining.

However, are the Maui fires climate related deaths? 

https://www.cbsnews.com/news/how-did-maui-fire-start-cause-lahaina-hawaii-wildfire/

Some are counting this as a climate change death related scenario, however. We will see. Hawaii certainly goes through dry seasons and has their fair share of hurricanes and tropical storms. Is Hurricane Dora an abnormal or statistical anomaly? Hard to say with just one data point like Dora, for that region of the Pacific Ocean. 

What we do know is weaker hurricanes are decreasing and stronger hurricanes are increasing according to this analysis:

https://www.pnas.org/doi/10.1073/pnas.1920849117

My interest in this is getting ahead of the risks involved with climate change and making the adaptations necessary to save the greatest number of humans lives AND industry (just because you have created evacuation or shelter programs does not mean we are succeeding at saving climate-change related deaths...if you save lives but critical infrastructure is destroyed, we can still end up with an unhealthy situation that may result in a lot of deaths, anyway (crop destruction is also a variable)).

Climate change is here to stay and no matter what we do with our emissions, we have to deal with climate change. Even if all of human industry ceased to exist, climate change is still going to happen (and the damage done by humans is going to last for quite a long time). Less pollution is a great start (I also call C02 emissions "pollution" to drive home the point of what it really is).
Omg, were on track for at least 4 billion people to die in 50 years!!!! 

Math checks out. Humans do infact die of old age.
These same scientists have been forecasting the end of humanity on a (approximate) 20 year cycle since the 1960’s.
Death toll of capitalism dwarfs other systems yet again, not even counting healthcare rationing, housing rationing, education rationing, etc.....
Didn’t they also we’d all be dead by 2015 or something?
If it looks like Bullshit and it smells like Bullshit, then guess what...
Essentially, more useless prognostication from the climate hysterics. They've been wrong for 150ish years, what's another 100?