Miami will soon be treading water. I wonder what excuse the asshat will have then.
Tell me you are accepting Big Oil campaign donations without saying you're...
Says the brilliant politician from a state that is already experiencing the consequences of worsening climate change

From the algal blooms, to the sargassum bullshit on the beach right now and the king tides in the keys, y’all need to stop eating shit and vote these red coats out
“Can you believe how liberal this heat is today? I can’t believe it.”
For being the leader of a state that would arguably suffer the most from severe climate change, he's got some nerve!
The “stupid” is accelerating.
Really is infuriating that one of the two major parties in the country flat out rejects science and is in favor of completely fucking us over more and more.
He's the fucking Gov of Florida. The state with a literal sinking city (Miami) that they need to solve FAST otherwise it's going to be a real life Atlantis.   


Not to mention the dying coral... (though that isn't 100% on climate change).
From the Governor who is politicizing books, education, gender, sexuality, Disney and Covid.
If the Dems say his wife is a cis- woman will he oppose them and call her gender fluid for sake of simply owning the libs?
[removed]
Don't ask for federal aid after the next hurricane
[removed]
When your base has an average IQ of 80…
He also dismisses Covid calling it the politicalization of corpses.
Yet politicizing skyman worship is totally fine...
A vote for republicans is a vote for the end of the world. It's really that simple
Wasn’t Fort Lauderdale looking like Waterworld less than a few months ago?
Translation: “I know climate change is real, it couldn’t be more obvious, but I am paid by Big Oil to say this crap and to keep the laws in Big Oil’s favor. I am a pathological asshole, devoid of compassion or empathy, this is how I am able to choose being bought rather than give one single shit about my children’s future.”
Tell that to the insurance companies raising rates for homeowners in Florida.

https://wusfnews.wusf.usf.edu/local-state/2023-04-04/florida-homeowners-to-face-a-projected-40-percent-increase-in-property-insurance-rates
I wonder his new buddy Elon will say about this? 🤔
[removed]
[removed]
>*The governor went on to say that he believed emissions could be reduced by encouraging innovation in the private sector,…*

But why then? Why reduce emissions?

For what it’s worth, I think everyone is opposed to “politicization of the weather”. I’m also opposed to playing politics with people’s private lives. How about you, Governor?
This dumb F$&ks state is sinking, hurricanes are more intense causing millions of dollars of damage, but this fool will do whatever it takes to win over the maga trashholes.
If I didn't already draw the line way wayyyy long ago, this would have done it. Farmers are starting to feel the effects of climate change now and understand that it's happening and that we need to do something about it. A lot of farmers are even willing to change the way they farm to keep their soil healthy. Attacking the environmental movement is very unpopular and it's going to continue to get less popular as demographics shift.
[That's an interesting stance from the governor of a state with so much coastline ](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2023/apr/10/sea-level-rise-climate-crisis-miami-new-orleans)
Does anyone trust his judgement?  He’s made an unbroken string of wrong calls on COVID (Florida had a higher than average death rate), climate change (the science of greenhouse gases was settled decades ago), gun control, Ukraine, etc.  His policies begin and end with troll-ism.  He’s a useless twit who does nothing to make anyone’s lives better.
Weather is woke. Ban it
Hmmm climate and weather are not the same. But I guess it's a moot point....
"I call your politicization of weather and raise you a politicization of climate".
The next set of hurricanes will not be nice to him or the Florida fools.
is Desantis running some type of short sell on florida or something? this guy JUST awarded 1.5$M in flood relief [funds.](https://www.flgov.com/2023/05/01/governor-ron-desantis-and-first-lady-casey-desantis-award-1-5-million-to-accelerate-flood-recovery-efforts-in-southeast-florida/#:~:text=TALLAHASSEE%2C%20Fla.,recovery%20efforts%20in%20Southeast%20Florida.) its obvious Florida needs to adjust for WHATEVER you want to blame the rising waters on. call it whatever.
Funny everyone thinks the problem is the state going underwater. The actual problem is already occurring. Which is salt water is seeping into the aquifers because sea level is.. rising. 50 years from now most of the aquifers will be fucked.
You can’t even build a wall around Florida. The water will just go under it.
Right is that why Insurance is through the roof in his state
Yeah and who fucking politicised it? Oh that’s right, THE RIGHT
What a maroon.
He believes in flat climate
Listen, it's not the rest of us sitting less than two inches above the ocean. We fuck around and it's gonna be his people who find out first.
I have never voted for a Democrat for president (in fact, I just voted for my first Democrat in the last mid-terms), but I will be voting for whoever the Democratic nominee is in 2024. Unless it's Kennedy. That guy's as nuts as Trump and DeSantis.
Hopefully voters are smart enough to dismiss DeSantis
Should be in r/NewsOfTheStupid
[removed]
Well, DeSantis is the politicization of stupidity.
This guy is an IDIOT
Gotta love it from the state most likely to end up under water due to climate change.
Oh this will blow up in his dumbass face.
Strange because Florida is literally building their waterfront structures with sea level rise factored in.
There is a delightful movie from the 1980s called "Erik the Viking," directed by and acted in by Terry Jones of Monty Python fame. One subtle theme in the movie is the nature of belief.

A scene towards the middle concerns a man sitting on the highest point of an island that is literally sinking around him (Ancient Curse basically), who says to some people on a boat, "Hi, it's not happening!"

*I think of this every time I hear a climate change denier say anything denying climate change.* They're standing on the same Earth experiencing climate change destruction, saying, "Hi, it's not happening!"
On May 25 Democracy Now just announced we officially entered our 6th mass extinction. So yeah Ron...do whatever you like.
What an idiot.
How ridiculous. Well he can explained that to Floridians as they flood
Dismiss Climate change evidently; he has not been paying attention  satellite photos of his state, Florida has gotten a lot smaller, it's going back into the sea Sea level has risen melting ice
DeSantis must ask himself every day what can he do or say to alienate as many Independents and Democrats as possible.
Aounds like Trump all over again. The champion of big oil greed vs future generations survivability.
Beg for more socialism in 2023 after you get rocked by politicized hurricane haha! I dare ya.
And we are 1 step closer to Idiocracy
He’s young enough he will die seeing half of Florida under water.
I can't wait until Florida falls into the ocean. And i say this as someone with parents who relocated to Sarasota, whom i love very much.
Bro florida is literally sinking lol
Progressive leader replies: Don’t piss down my back and tell me it’s raining you swarthy turd…
He says this, ironically, as the governor of Florida which is guaranteed to be one of the hardest hit states in the coming decades.
How is this party even legal? Blows my mind.
People vote for this idiot? Honestly if he becomes president nothing good will cone of it
I've had a lot of people tell me this fucker is smart, but I think there is ample evidence to the contrary.
[removed]
Hey, if you’re reading this comment and you like Ron DeSantis, I just wanted to let you know that you’re a fascist, anti-American, dolt.
This is the Republican Party.  This is how fascism works.  Keep voting Republican, suckers, and you’ll get exactly what you deserve.
That is backwards. The *refusal* to acknowledge climate change, that is the real politicization of weather. It's all projection.
Well then, why do you Gov DS continue to demand funds from the FED everytime your State receives  a slate of bad weather - just write it off to bad weather in FL  - all Floridians need to get over themselves, especially because most Insurance companies will no longer provide property insurance due to all the "negative weather events" in Florida.
The art of politicizing climate science while scapegoating everyone else for your own partisan attacks on it.

What a buffoon
For anybody who hasn't watched Don't Look Up, you're about to witness the main premise.
It was barely winter last year. We had light snow in February but that’s about it it was pretty warm all last year.
He’s so fucking stupid he’ll likely end up the next president.
Lol. His state's home insurance market is collapsing due to the climate crisis and he's pretending it isn't real. State law makers are going to have a hell of a time trying to sell the idea of a state run insurance program to a largely conservative constituency after decades of being told the government can't do insurance effectively. Now they have to thread this needle or watch billions in real estate assets vanish with every new storm. Absolute shit show under his watch.
When do they predict that Florida will be completely underwater?
Seems more like the right wing is labeling science as political.
Okay Einstein.
Really giving it to those scientists! And just after giving it to those doctors over LGBT people. Not to mention all those teachers and educators!

It’s amazing to have a candidate for President that relying on denial and division as a winning future for America.
They just keep saying dumber and dumber shit
[deleted]
What a petulant baby.  I'm shocked he knows how to put his own pants on.
OK don’t ask for help when Southern Florida is ankle-deep in sea water.
He’s governor of the state that will cease to exist with another couple feet of sea level rise. Unbelievable.
Says the fucking moron who thinks that everything is “Woke”.
Isn't Florida at risk because of climate change?
….as he politicizes the weather.
Can blue states stop funding the crutch keeping up his drowning red state?
Dismissing climate change is politicization of science. 

But I don't know why I'm surprised he doesn't know the difference between climate and weather.
Weird that the insurance companies are taking it seriously...
Sounds good. He better hope his constituents can swim.
Hope a tornado crashes into his house.
This guy is beyond stupid. We need to vote him out of office
A few weeks ago Miami/Ft Lauderdale was completely under water but he didn’t care. He was touring the US. Stop electing sociopaths.
I worked with dudes like DeSantis when I worked for two federal agencies after college. He's committed to an ideology, and if you aren't inside his very particular worldview (viz., his *bubble*), he doesn't give a fuck about you or anything you believe or care about. 

Men like him want to treat scientists like janitors and their findings like freshman book reports. He serves an imaginary daddy that he may or may not actually believe in, and the pursuit of power, harm to his perceived enemies, and that daddy love (or performance of love, either way) informs his ever decision.

...Fortunately, even with Ivy League degrees, such men are shortsighted and immensely dense. That may or may not save us. Ron DeSantis is quite literally the president in *Escape From L.A.*
Pudding Fingers is a Fascist moron.
Politics in Florida in 2030 be like waterworld with Kevin Costner.
And suddenly we're back in the Dark Ages again....
Please, somebody send this shit stain back to the Diaper State. His stinch is starting to fowl my "clean" air.
Remember, the rich and powerful can live wherever they want and steal whatever resources they want, climate change is not the same threat to them as it is to everyone else and if they can make money off delaying action they will in a second, they’d do it for an extra $0.01.