Make sure to check out the [pinned post on Loss](https://www.reddit.com/r/PeterExplainsTheJoke/comments/1472nhh/faq_loss/) to make sure this submission doesn't break the rule!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/PeterExplainsTheJoke) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Scientists have recently discovered how to make the perfect cup of tea. 

It's been very controversial since the grant was for cancer research
I love how every response is completely different and plausibly unhinged.
The scientist uses the funds from the people employing him to make a bipedal shark instead of solving climate change. The scientist is sad that they're not proud of his work and lets the shark go.
https://preview.redd.it/mvq6m5lyrevd1.png?width=1078&format=pjpg&auto=webp&s=c169442a4c872ef41e503a26d8cd7148c326b9ba

Same energy.
The shark survived a change of climate from the sea to dry land, gaining favorable evolutionary traits at the same time. It was a climate change for sharks, not for people.
I think that the solution that the scientist thought of to solve the climate change is killing the humans
It’s Garchomp. He’s going to solve climate change
i think the joke is that these things are funded to solve climate change, but use the funds for something completely different
It has nothing to do with it. That's the joke.
Turning people into hammerhead sharks so they can survive when the ice caps melt and flood the earth?
I think his solution to climate change is something higher on the food chain than humans
The scientist had more fun creating a bipedal hammerhead shark instead of solving climate change. 

  
That's the joke.
mutant shark will decimate the human population, thereby reversing climate change?
Reminds me of Sauron the X-Men villain. Spiderman asked him why is he doing the bad things he was when he could be curing cancer. Sauron's reply was "I don't want to cure cancer, I want to turn people into dinosaurs".
I think this can be read two ways, one being that the scientist was given money to help solve climate change and wound up creating human shark hybrids instead. I imagine this is a play on how research in one field can result in breakthroughs in another essentially accidentally. 

The other one I find more fun but more than likely invalidated by the last panel is that human shark hybrids ARE a solution to climate climate change insofar that climate change results in rising water levels, a change that would be at least tolerable I imagine to shark people.
The shark will be used to murder humanity on land and on the sea, thereby lowering carbon emissions and kinda solving climate change
For some reason my mind went to The Shape of Water and thought he made a shark-person to fuck as his “research.”

Or just found one and his research was fucking it instead of trying to solve climate change.
Boring, most likely answer: The scientist spent the grant money they got for solving climate change to create a bipedal landshark (which is admittedly cool, but unrelated).

Alternative, less likely answer: the scientists wants to solve climate change by going on the Thanos route: creating a new predator and culling the human population.
https://preview.redd.it/yedokqj19fvd1.jpeg?width=207&format=pjpg&auto=webp&s=f777c57caec2832200e67050c55c460e788b683f
The shark is gonna commit mass genocide, removing people causing climate change
Maybe adapting humans to living in an aquatic environment is the solution this scientist was pursuing. Just my guess
I think this is a jab at cancer research. lots of money was poured in and for that much money, mice is the main test subject so we created the perfect cancer cure for mice, not for humans although the ultimate goal is cancer cure for humans.
He is solving climate change by introducing a new apex predator to compete with humans
I think the implication is that the shark will "solve climate change" by eating people.
Well, atleast the hammerhead shark is now a top predator and no longer extinct
Absolutely nothing. i think its meant to be a parody of how in real life scientists choose to research  whether you can clone mammoths instead of solving actual world problems.
The bipedal sharkman was designed to physically fight climate change. He's letting it go so it can punch climate change to death.
It's a really smart plan when you think about it cause climate change can't fight back because all of its attacks will just slide of sharkman because he's so smooth.
The shark controls the population, it's like how wolves control the population of deer, we need the sharks to regulate human population so we produce less waste.
that dave, he just know how to solve stuff
Half shark-alligator half man
Reminds me of the anime Blue Submarine No. 5
Knock knock, who's there, land shark, land shar.....
The simpler explanation is that the scientist took the grant money and simply did his own thing, ignoring what he was supposed to do.

Another take is that since sea levels are rising the scientist is trying to create a version of humanity that can live underwater. The shark people will soon replace the ape people.
No joke. He solved climate change by turning all humans into humanoid sharks.

Earth flood. We swim. The end.

/s
The real example can be how one scientist was asked to research for oil in ocean, he instead used this opportunity to compare level of lead in places without petroleum and with petroleum.
Disappointed it wasn’t just a big crab/crabperson
Nothing that’s the joke
Man-shark will eat all the people, preventing human activity from causing further warming
I mean, they made the oldest, and therefore the most successful, predator able to life on land.

Maybe the joke is that a shark that can live on land will solve climate change by eating a lot of humans who destroy the climate?
maybe this monster is gonna kill people, so they technically solved climate change
Or ... the bipedal sharks kill off most of the human population.... and thereby fix climate change
I'm pretty sure the joke isn't as deep as some people are making it, lol...

Pretty much just the scientist misusing his research funding to make a cool shark man, instead of solving climate change like he was supposed to.
That was how the first episode of street sharks should have gone

https://preview.redd.it/kbkpd29zyhvd1.jpeg?width=182&format=pjpg&auto=webp&s=c637f28993bbb9785ff3a4176516985b45c85073
Thanks for the character backstory
I think the joke is that by creating a bipedal shark, they have created a human killing machine that will eliminate humans and thus solve problems associated with climate change.
Shark man will eat people ultimately helping solve climate change by lowering the number of humans
This is from a movie, a very bad B-movie...I can't remember the name right now but I'll find out.
Who cares? That comics jawsome!
The scientist realizes climate change won’t stop, because people won’t change. So he solves it by giving humans the ability to survive the rising sea levels. That’s what I gathered anyway.
This might be referencing Ben Shapiro, at a climate change talk (iirc) he said "do you really think people won't just sell their houses?" In response to the ocean levels rising and making some coastal areas completely flooded in the near future. 

The scientist made a bipedal shark so that when the oceans do rise, everyone can sell their houses and the bipedal sharks can move in, also fucking Aquaman.
He solved climate change by making a land based shark which he releases to kill people on land thereby reducing climate change. You're welcome.
I didn't scroll that far, but didn't see what I thought the answer was, so if it's already been posted or there's some in joke I'm missing about not telling the actual joke (at least as I set it) my bad.

Pretty sure that shark is intended to eat as many people as possible, reducing the number of humans and amount of climate change impact.
The scientist was asked to cure Climate Change.  
Humans are often reported as being the number 1 cause of Climate Change.   
Monsters are often reported as being the number 1 remover of Humans (don't fact check this).
Kill all people will solve the climate change, so he released the 🦈
Well, with the rising ocean levels, we might as well make new fish-people to live in the ocean, right?
Maybe it's environment change and the guy misheard?
I'll solve this climate crisis. Don't worry guys
The scientist made the land shark monster to hunt humans, because humans are a huge factor in climate change today. No humans, no more man-made climate change, problem solved.
I thought that it meant reasearch was to identify if it is an animal. And to find out they asked very easy question that even stupidiest animal can solve "how to solve climate issue?" And he answered correctly thus confirming he is an animal.
!lock!
The bipedal shark will destroy humanity, thus solving the climate crisis
I'm probably wrong, but i think this is the plot of a terrible syfy movie from the 2000's called  hammerhead? Scientists accidentally create a bipedal shark/human hybrid called paul and he goes on a killing spree
There is nothing no one can do. The joke is that they try to make experiences on animals but that will never help to solve the problem
Instead of fixing climate change, they are making people adapt to any climate...
I think this is saying that the best way to solve climate change is to have land sharks eat the people that are causing climate change.
https://preview.redd.it/y00e1jdztfvd1.jpeg?width=1053&format=pjpg&auto=webp&s=658ab1fefdc0a3b0c1502f25dcf5464ca70624ef
like viagra was the by product of heart disease research, the cup of tea was the by product of cancer research /s
So tell me.. how did they make the tea
Is this from a Douglas Adam's book?
Oh no  someone discovered something else along the way and published it because they have to publish an X number or papers or loose their job/next grant. The horror.

Military orders a 70 dollar hammer, everything is fine
Is this from a Douglas Adam's book?
source?
Can you share the recipe? Please
It's insane how many upvotes this got considering this poster completely made this up.
I'm unsuccessful in finding articles about this, as googling has only led me to grants for my own, non-existent, cancer research.
This sound like something straight from The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy 
This sounds like something from the Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy
Can I see the paper? I love tea!
I can't even be mad
Is this actually a thing? Because it sounds like a punchline. And do you have a link to the perfect cup of tea process?
What about the World's Smallest Coffee cup?
Worth it
A surprising amount of things came out as „by product“
https://i.redd.it/u7fqqi1wtkvd1.gif
I would love to read the source!
Do you have a link to the article?
Is this true? I thought it was because "solving" climate change is something we already know how to do, but refuse to do it. So, instead he made it so that we can breath/work/survive underwater. :shrug:
The next top three comments under this one are saying essentially the same thing.
I'll admit they aren't drawn, but the way the door opens for the shark man suggests it was definitely via hinges
It's even more unhinged if you read the second panel as though he's speaking to the shark.
For some reason I thought the guy in the 2nd panel was talking to the shark
He did solve climate change. The shark will eat a bunch of people, which will massively reduce emissions.
Not sure why this isn’t more obvious to people
People without imagination simply don't see the big picture. I am convinced that shark man will stop climate change!
I thought he let the shark go to eat his rich boss
The scientist solved climate change by creating a species that could survive climate change.
😂
This is it, subverting the readers expectations. But most in this thread I guess don’t trust scientists instead?
This is the correct answer.