ai hat with all brim
You can also tell this is ai cuz he never laughs.
That’s that new shit for new era… the fedora fitted
CNN didn't report on it because it didn't happen.  And the fact the only engagement these chucklefucks can show between their cult leader and the black community are computer generated images and not a single real one shows the truth.  Dude is hated by them. 


Here's a good question: why aren't we fighting back against this?  AI Trump with black folks. OK, someone who knows how can make an AI Trump at a Klan rally.  Or at a Nazi death camp. Or using a baby as a human shield.  They can make their propaganda, why can't we?
Has he ever worn a candy cane tie ever? That's hilarious.
https://imgur.com/d25iow1
You know that’s AI because he never smiles like that. He smiles like a 2nd grader on picture day.
i wonder how many MAGAts are fooled by this
Dude on the far right must have had his fingertips surgically removed then reattached via quantum entanglement, because they look like they're just.....floating.


Trump's right hand is being held by that one guy from Scary Movie who's using his "strong hand".


The guy behind the other guy with the do-rag and glasses (who looks terrified) wearing a red hat has like 4 rows of teeth. Maybe the do-rag guy knows there's a man behind him in a MAGA hat with 4 rows of teeth? I dunno...
It’s kinda scary that in a few years time AI can create realistic propaganda that most people won’t recognize without stopping and examining a picture
Fucking rubes
They’re not technically wrong by saying “the corporate media REFUSE to report on” and “CNN will never report on this”. Tbh, it would be concerning if any media actually reported on this.
What the fuck are they even serving? Slabs of skin? Shaved lamb?  Looks gross
It’s insane because most of people posting this KNOW it’s ai
Fuck man people are too stupid for AI.  This shit is legit terrifying.
How are people so blind to AI???
Please, please, please Mr. Trump. I dare you to actually go to a BBQ in South Central Los Angeles. They're waiting for you.
I like the guy with a steak for a hand holding the tong. Not tongs, because it's just one side of one. If these people are going to make AI fakes they should at least try a bit. Though I guess their target audience isn't that bright.
It’s a complete fabrication. Trump has never traveled to the Caribbean.
Benny Johnson got fired from Buzzfeed for plagiarism.
"ThE bLaCkS lOvE dOnAlD tRuMp!"
What's lame is that these people know they're fakes but they know boomers don't
All brim hat… double thumbs, short thumbs, no flappy vagina neck… yup, it’s AI.

The AI also gave him small hands… so, at least it got that right.
It's pretty pathetic that the primary use of generative AI seems to be showing Donald Trump doing nice things he would never do.
that is a man who has never been invited to a bbq in his life.
I fully support the first amendment but Congress needs to pass laws against  misinformation intended for election interference with AI.
Wonder how his followers feel about him hanging out with illegal aliens though?

https://preview.redd.it/ttmdv09wsm2d1.png?width=720&format=png&auto=webp&s=d39d347450c9a7a42e20fe8e93534f9c072646bd
Boy! Go get me a coconut!
Clown tie fits though.
The Russian propaganda bots in full force on xitter
Fascist propaganda
Isn't that image AI?


I can't imagine Trump eating at a street BBQ where the chef has a steak hand.



Lying is the only free speech they care about.
He’d never be that relaxed around that many Black people.
That does not look fake at all!
Because. It.  Never. Fucking. Happened.
Secret Service decided to take the day off? I don't think Trump would eat mystery meat off a grill like this.  Maybe that's where the SS is at - they left to get him a few Big Macs.
This AI pic is funny and offensive at the same time.
What is up with that weird baseball cap/ hardhat/ bowler amalgam, AI? I know you're bad at drawing hands, but that's a hat.
This image circulated months ago. It was AI then and is AI now.
They’ll never report on the Easter bunny smoking a joint with the tooth fairy either. Filthy animals at CNN
Think how mad this makes a majority of trump supporters
I refuse to believe anyone could be tricked by this photo. What is going on around trumps hands? What sort of bizarre transfer of materials is occurring there?
Hands are difficult.
Trump didn't wear a red and white striped tie during his Bronx rally.
Why would CNN report it.   Never happened
has to be AI, ive never seen such a genuine laugh from this sociopath.
Did he change his tie for this “photo” because it doesn’t look like what I see on the rally videos
https://preview.redd.it/faeheq14um2d1.png?width=102&format=png&auto=webp&s=04f070b9bd9b160760e473bcbe92c1b9123eb8d3

BBQ so good the chicken (?) grills itself
why does AI seem to think that people congregate extremely close up together all the time anywhere everywhere
Not prejudice at all. A bbq with your black buddies.
The tie though! How did it fuck up that ever-present icon of overcompensation?
 Is this photoshop? Cause it can’t be real.
Propaganda is what Reich folks do
I find this image to be fairly impossible because black communities all over New York will never forget the things Trump has done to their communities. The Central Park Five come to mind and the brutal evictions Trump did in the 1980s and 1990s in the buildings he owned so he could gentrify the neighborhoods to make more money. Trump is definitely from New York and those he harmed in his "business" dealings remember through the scars he caused.

Also, the Bronx isn't located in east LA, good job AI.
That’s a happy, joyful, having a great time laugh. Orange shitgibbons are incapable of this behavior.
The first thing to check if you’re not sure if an image is AI is the hands. Look for the hands in an image because AI doesn’t really know how to create them correctly. They’re actually difficult for real artists let alone artificial ones.
The light on Trump is at a different angle than the light on the guy to his right
Good luck explaining to a Trump voter 1) that this isn’t real, 2) what AI is, and 3) what black people are
AI
The amount of lying and gaslighting after the birthday party sized crowd at the trump concert in the Bronx has me thinking they are really sweating.
They must think magas are incredibly stupid.  


oh yeah,  they are 
I mean, his hand is a literal steak, but republicans are dumb as fuck so…
He was NOT invited to the barbecue!! 😝🤣🤣
amazes me how the party whining about fake news uses and pushes obvious ai imagery so much.
That looks like one of those north Korean propaganda photos lol
Striped tie? Never ever, doesn't own one.
Chicken nuggies on the grill up front there.
You can tell it's AI because Trump is experiencing joy.
*checks the hands for AI shenanigans*
Woman on the right has like 8 fingers
Ronny Chang of the daily show said it best. If a picture of trump looks completely normally it’s probably AI. If it looks bat shit crazy its probably real
That's it! Trump is from Kenya! Let's see the birth certificate!
Its pretty awful how they use AI images to pander to black voters instead of him actually talking to black people
All i can see with this is that one meme pic of that porn star with the 5 black guys.

Not a fucking clue what her name is.
It's AI.

How cause of the shadows? No

The hands the fingers? No

Then how, how do you know it's AI.

He is smiling.
really?
He was wearing a solid red tie at the rally
The only time this guy touches a burger is when it’s in a McDonald’s bag.
Ole Mc Donald has some firm  creating ai-ai-o
This is the only picture I can find of Trump in a simple red and white striped tie. Clearly a fake.
Nobody’s going to mention the PALM TREE?! The only palm trees in the Bronx are in the Conservatory at the Botanical Gardens. (Source: am a Bronx person who WASNT at this Orange chucklefuck’s rally)
Ok now have ai do the gangbang one where trump is the blonde lady
Mmm, chicken fingers 🫰
His mouth doesn’t look like an anus, so I call bullshit.
Totally normal looking fingers and hats
The guy behind him doesn’t have eyes, he’s there’s a mystery hand holding a utensil, the guy’s red hat has a blurry hat
Let's play Spot the Anomalies! Extra points if it's not a hand.
Wouldn’t be surprised if it’s Biden’s smile shopped on tRumps face.
So CNN would never report fake news?
Bros, he doesn't give a good G-d Damn about black people
Look at the hands people. It’s always a dead giveaway
JFC! The AI is so obvious it's stupid.
Shhhhh....or they'll photoshop the palm tree out
To be fair. I would love to be there. Looks like good food.
Not a laugh — Pretty sure that’s his “sharted” face.
Check the fingers.
The meat monster hand on the lower right holding some tongs(?) is also quite revealing
In a better world this picture would be true
I love how that one guys head is growing right out of that other guy’s shoulder.
All of their hands look F’d up. Lol