Does this guy do things besides commenting on my uterine status?
Conservatives obsessing over women's body parts for a thousand years straight
when he has a uterus he can have all the kids he wants
Republican Agenda: We don't really understand how to govern a state or a nation but what we do know is that we need to control women.
Is it also deranged for a man to stay single and not produce any children? 

No didn’t think so. Just women you want to lecture.
“JD Vance” and “deranged” do go nicely in the same sentence though.
What’s deranged is being ashamed to be seen in public with your wife and kids.
 This man is so obsessed with us having kids. It’s very disturbing.  How many more like him are out there? We have over 7 billion people on this planet. We went forth. We multiplied. Done.
My favorite comment about JD Vance: he probably doesn’t know the names and ages of his kids.
Why is JD Vance so obsessed with women having children?  He should have sought therapy for his mommy issues, and a daddy figure other than Peter Thiel.  Maybe he'd be a happier person now.
I’m so fucking tired of this man.
JD Vance is deranged is all I hear with this.
Does him and Trump have some sort of breeding fetish??

SERIOUSLY, all they talk about is "MORE BABIES ARE COMING!!"
If Trump gets in they will roll him very quickly for having dementia. So you’ll have Vance and Project 2025 running the show. How terrifying.
HEY Y’ALL STOP BEING UNPREGNANT! 

Sigh.
How about not having children because of Christian Nationalist MAGA project 2025
JD Vance proving once again that he's just so damn weird.
"It's deranged for women to NOT want children *due to... climate change,"* he says? I thought Republicans didn't "believe" in "climate change." 😒 It's simply amazing how critical things like THIS... only exist when Republicans are trying to make a point, regardless of how stupid that "point" is.
He just keeps digging that hole deeper and deeper.
Then I'm deranged, because climate change *is* one of the many reasons I'm not having kids. I'll just add that to the list of why a dude should never be in charge of my uterus.
I can't believe this is something that needs to keep being said and put out into the universe:

Whatever your reason for not wanting to have children that is your personal choice and is a perfectly valid reason to not choose parenthood.

Afraid of passing on hereditary disabilities or mental illness? Afraid of the future of the country and world at large? Don't enjoy being around kids? Enjoy a life not being responsible for a child too much? Don't feel you are in a financially stable place? Don't have a desire to change your body to gestate a person? Don't feel you'd be a good parent? Just don't want to do it?

It's all perfectly valid. They aren't excuses, they're reasons. Choosing to carry and then parent a child is a very serious choice and if you don't want to do it then you don't want to do it.
You know what’s even more deranged…trying to sell the American dream in 2024.
Long after you are gone you lousy POS your kids will be left with a vastly deteriorating planet because you and your party dismissed and opposed all of the red flags, and more importantly scientific data, that there is unequivocal evidence that Earth is warming at an unprecedented rate and human activity is the principal cause.
Never forget JD was sent to war to cover up American rapes and murders.
Its sociopath that he believes he has any right to an opinion on who does or doesn't choose to have kids. In-fact, he has no righto demand any one to have kids either. Really, most politicians should be avoiding this topic since they are men, not women.
Can this creep please shut up about women forever?
What the fuck are those socks?
How about you stop speaking for us. What an ash hole.
That ozempic really worked for him
What is with this weird republican narrative that adopted children and/or stepchildren don’t count? He listed off Kamala and Pete both of whom ARE parents?
Its deranged how much someone without a vagina wants to control someone with a vagina
Notice he never talks about childless MEN. It’s always about criticizing women.
This somehow is more articulate article about reasons for declining birth rates. Is this JD playing Ivy League with his vocabulary rather than hillbilly folksy. Doesn’t matter how you mash it bs never tastes good.
Imagine thinking climate change is the main driver for women not wanting kids....

Maybe make minimum wage higher and child care costs lower? 🤔
The only people in the us more deranged than this guy are his women supporters.
The fact he has nothing actually important to say about climate change shows this guy should go back to writing books about being white trash.
What’s deranged is HAVING kids due to climate change. There are way too many fucking people on this planet.
The only ones who are in actuality are you and the man who chose you to be his VP
He's an idiot.
Then what will we eat when the crops fail?
JD is deranged!
Why is he so obsessed with our vaginas?
What's deranged is that a Vice Presidential candidate can't answer the question "who won the last presidential election?"
What about husbands whose sperm is the problem? It’s always on women?
Deranged is pretending climate change isn't real and trying to destroy the Environmental Protection Agency
What about men not having children due to climate change? What about them, Vance?
When Trump has his inevitable stroke/heart attack in 2 years... He has the possibility of being President Vance... We need to work harder to ensure this doesn't happen. VOTE!!!
It's deranged for him to have an opinion about other people's decisions not to have children.
It says a lot about Vance that he gets on women for not having children but doesn't say a word about unmarried and childless men.

  
/Happily Unmarried Childless Dude.
It's deranged for him to fucking care.
Oh, it's not climate change. Me and my wife are hesitant to have children due to the increasing risk of them being shot in school by someone who shouldn't have access to firearms.
The way to shut down this asshole is the response to any of his women must have babies comments is some men don't have/want children either.
Gross
WTF is he going on about now?
The American south will become too dangerous to live in and too expensive to insure, hurricanes are becoming stronger and more frequent, fire is now a season and we are rapidly losing our standing with the first world countries. Half the country doesn’t have bodily autonomy and access to healthcare, the planet is on fire, college is a lifetime debt sentence now, wages will still not have went up by the time they’re an adult and republicans are trying to rewind America to the 1700’s… what about that says it’s even a slightly responsible idea to bring a kid into?!
It is actually smart not to have kids and increase the population that is and will suffer because of climate change. Those without a uterus should not stick their noses in the personal business of those with one!
There’s plenty of reasons to not have kids besides climate change. For example, I wouldn’t want to bring one into a country which could very likely be led by this evil motherfucker someday.
Stop obsessing over my lady bits and go fuck a couch or something jfc
That bitch is deranged.
He’s such a creep.
How does this dude have a wife?
How normal is humping furniture? Asking for a friend.
John Gacy's missing son is at it again, fucking hell.
Does this guy have an opinion on anything other than women’s uterus?
It’s not the climate, you idiot, it’s the fact that you will actively prevent me from getting care if I start bleeding out on the table!
Vance's 3 children will be protected because he has millions. Unfortunately, most children will be not. The ravages of climate change will kill by the millions as conditions worsen over the years. 

Do not have children. There are way too many people in this world now. I had only 2, and only one of them has children and only 2.
Why is this asshat so obsessed with women having babies? Is this a fetish? Honestly, he's the only one that's deranged well and the orange clown.
It is deranged to comment on other people's preference for having children or not.
Oh, my sweet summer child. That's the LEAST deranged of my reasons.  I want to pat him on the head and send him to his room for a nap.
Seedy JD is absurd.
[deleted]
Who is he to decide what women should do? Stick to screwing your couch bud
With any person who cares abt women's choice, (and men's and anyone else's choice too cuz we can't make babies w just one person yet n Vance don't seem to gaf abt choice) I feel they'd be hoofing it away from the GOP if this is the guy they've got. 

But they don't care, I assume, whatever the reason behind that. Or they care but they care about something else more.
I think he doesn’t understand either concept.
How about because if we have a bad or ectopic pregnancy they will sit there and watch us suffer and die??

…That is MORE than reason enough for no woman to ever get pregnant again.  

God knows a man wouldn’t, under these conditions.
Is he trying to out-Trump Trump? He makes no sense. Thinking about the world your kids will live in is compassionate thinking.
Women only support Harris by 5 points
MInd ya business nut job
Does he have a wife? I wonder what would happen if she stopped sleeping with him lmao
He’s an idiot. One of my worst fears is rump winning the election and shortly thereafter steps down and - Voila! - President Vance.
J D Vance is deranged!
Let's hope reincarnation isn't a thing, because this big blue ball we're living on will be scorching hot.
Ok, great
Still not beating the weird allegations 
Just when I think I can’t hate him more..
What’s deranged is that he cares what women, he has no relationship to, decide to do, whether it’s have kids or not. Who cares, and who cares what their reasoning is.
That's only one reason, Couch Change Cock
Buddy, guys like YOU are why the population is decreasing.
It's deranged worrying about someone else's body that you don't even care about
It’s all about forcing women to bend to their will. I find it weird they don’t even poll or ask men if THEY want children? 
Republicans are always concerned about what's going on in someone else's bedroom.
How about Vance worrying about the private decisions of his OWN family and getting out of everyone else's lives?
God I fucking hate this guy
It's deranged for JD. Vance to be in a position of authority.
As a woman with a child, people like Vance piss me off more than anything. I COMPLETELY understand why others CHOOSE to not have children. 

They are a lot of work, wonderful, but draining, time consuming AND expensive. 

They will be inheriting a future that is SO scary and uncertain. climate change, political environment, pollution and just overall turmoil across the world are huge concerns for our children to have to face.
If I was born in 2024 I’ll be pissed
He should have 12 kids because he seems like he’d be a great dad🙄
Moron. More people means more pollution which means faster climate change. Besides, the women who want bunches of kids more than make up the difference.
Why is he so obsessed with villainizing women who choose not to have kids? This dude is so gross.
I… I don’t know if it’s a good idea right now. I mean, the world’s a pretty messed up place. Who would want to bring a child into this kind of world? With everything that’s going on…